Statement on Climate-Related Risk
Summary
Climate change continues to shape our world and is emerging as a major driving factor
affecting long term resilience in industry and the global economy. Its influence on how
and where we live will continue to grow in significance in the absence of appropriate
action to abate greenhouse gas emissions.
Likewise, the effect that climate change has on the way business and industry operates
cannot be overlooked. Whilst we recognise that climate change presents substantive risks
to our operations and products, we also recognise that the challenge posed by climate
change presents our organisation with enormous opportunity in terms of the provision of
sustainable power and transport. It is only by recognising these risks and opportunities
that we can implement appropriate actions to maintain our resilience in a world shaped by
climate change.
This document may contain forward-looking statements; any statements that may express forecasts, expectations and
projections are not guarantees of future performance. This statement is intended to provide information to stakeholder s
and by its nature may involve risk and uncertainty.
Risk identification process
The assessment and management of climate-related risk and opportunity is an integral
part of our enterprise risk management process. This acts to identify both current and
emerging risks and opportunities.
Risks and opportunities are considered over a range of timescales including:
• 0 to 1 years for in-year planning;
• 1 to 5 years for annual target setting;
• 5 to 20 years for strategic planning.
Identification of climate-related risks and opportunities occurs at all levels and in all parts
of Rolls-Royce, from our Executive Team and Board who oversee principal risks for the
company, through to our shop floor where more specific operational and asset level risks
are identified.
Climate-related risks and opportunities are identified through a range of processes, with
reviews conducted regularly throughout the year in line with UK Governances Code
requirements. These processes include horizon scanning, scenario planning, subjectmatter expertise (such as that provided by our Environmental Advisory Committee of
academic experts), and broader stakeholder engagement. The outputs of these processes
are categorised as either threats or opportunities.
Threats are subjected to a materiality assessment which determines if the risk they
represent is within our risk appetite, and to understand where risk management or
mitigation is required. Risk mitigation is intended to lessen our exposure to risks with the
potential to have substantive financial or strategic impact on our business operations and
products. Likewise, opportunities go through a similar materiality assessment to determine
if and how we could leverage our position as a leading industrial technology company to
deliver solutions to help mitigate climate change and generate new business
opportunities.
Risk management process
Once identified, risks are assessed using a risk scoring scheme that is formally defined in
a risk management plan. Each risk is initially assessed on a qualitative basis, comprising
probability of occurrence and the potential impact of the risk defined. A list ranking and
prioritising the risks is then made available in a risk register to facilitate management
focus on key risks. The most material risks are reviewed every six months by the Board or
the most appropriate Board sub-committee. These actions help us to coordinate our near
term and long term research and development programmes from which emerge more
efficient products, services, and operational capabilities.
Our treatment of climate-related risks is dependent upon the risk in question and our
ability to address all the root causes. Risks that are within our control, such as transitional
risks associated with product emissions, are more easily mitigated through the
development of technology. Those risks that are outside our control are better managed
through risk transfer (for example the purchase of business continuity insurance to
safeguard against the physical risk of extreme weather disrupting our supply chain). Risks
that conform to the Group’s defined risk appetite are either accepted or controlled
through less direct methods.
Climate-related opportunities are assessed in terms of their ability to generate returns for
minimal risk. Those opportunities with high return potential are realised and capitalised
on through the development of new technologies via a gated review process. Applying
this approach to both transitional opportunities (such as developments in customer
requirements for more efficient products) and physical opportunities (such as the change
in product performance requirements to accommodate changes in weather and
atmospheric conditions) leads to the development of new products and services that help
deliver societies requirement for power in more sustainable ways.Risks and opportunities
We have identified the following risks and opportunities that have the potential for substantive impact on our business.
Risks associated with climate change
Potential
Risk Description Likelihood Timescale Management
impact
If the impacts of climate change The management of these risks is an integral part of
results in severe and our multi-disciplinary companywide risk
unanticipated volatility to the management processes. A variety of methods are
Product physical operating environment Very used to manage these risks depending on the form
Low >5 years
operation of our product, then our ability High they take:
to operate a viable services
oriented business will be greatly - Horizon scanning and scenario planning;
reduced - Investing in the development of products and
If the impacts of climate change capabilities to reduce our environmental impact
result in consumer and societal - Enhancing our capabilities to access, invest in
expectations for low carbon and develop key technologies and innovative
transports increasing at a faster service offerings that differentiate us
Societal Very
pace than we can innovate and Low 1-5 years competitively;
pressure High
develop low carbon solutions - Forming strategic partnerships and conducting
for, then we could potentially joint research programmes with our partners;
lose market share. - Actively sharing environmental information
where possible through industry, government
If the impacts of climate change and NGO forums;
results in severe regulatory limits - Regular reviews of the strength of relevant
or restrictions on our production teams including engineering, technology,
and manufacturing activities, Very environment and sustainability specialists;
Regulations Low 1-5 years
then we could be unable to High - Developing and maintaining relationships with
produce our product as planned government’s and stakeholders and proactively
and will forfeit sales and influencing policy, regulation and legislation
associated revenue streams where it affects us.Opportunities associated with climate change
Potential
Opportunity Description Likelihood Timescale Management
impact
If increases in air temperature cause The process we have implemented to
inlet air temperature to increase, then manage these opportunities takes its
the power provided by current engines inputs from 2 areas:
will be reduced, limiting their • Customer and stakeholder engagement
Product Medium- Low-
operational capability (particularly in >5 years (to understand product and system
operations high medium
regions of high altitude). This will requirements)
provide our company with an • Monitoring developments in the
opportunity to replace current engine understanding of climate change and
fleets and generate increased revenue. the subsequent changes in regulation,
If the impacts of climate change result both through in-house activities and
in increased demand from consumer our Environmental Advisory Committee
and broader society for more efficient of distinguished academics and leading
and lower carbon transport systems, environmental scientists.
then this would enhance the value of
Societal our investment in advanced technology Low- Our internal Environment & Sustainability
Low >5 years
demand and could potentially result in direct medium Committee uses the outputs of this
increases in the sale of our products process to co-ordinate associated
and services to replace legacy or activities across the Group as to which
provide cost-effective solutions for related opportunities we should capitalise
customers to maintain the efficiency of on. Qualifying opportunities are then
our products in the field. realised through the development of new
If concerns over climate change cause technologies using standard design,
governments to increase the proportion development and implementation
of nuclear energy generation as part of frameworks.
a future low-carbon energy mix, then
New business
our capabilities in nuclear and the High Medium >5 years
opportunity
development of SMRs for civil power
stations would put us in a leading
position to supply this expanding
market.