Task Force on Climate-related
Financial Disclosures Report
PwC US 2023
1Contents
Intro letter from leadership 3
About this report 4
Overview of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 4
Report scope and methodology 5
Governance at PwC 7
Governance of climate strategy 7
Strategy 9
How we are addressing climate change 9
How we are reducing our emissions footprint 10
TCFD assessment process 11
An overview of our findings 15
Risk management 20
Metrics and targets 22
Calculations 25
Our GHG footprint 25
Looking ahead 26
Appendix 27
Detailed TCFD categorization of risk and opportunity analysis 27
Detailed physical risk scenario analysis results 33
Detailed transition risk scenario analysis results 35
2Introduction
PwC’s purpose is to build trust in society and solve Our FY22 Purpose and Inclusion Report highlights
important problems. As such, we feel an obligation and how we are addressing climate footprint as a core
responsibility to address the root causes of climate part of our ESG strategy at PwC. We also have the
change, as well as to lead by example. This is why, opportunity and responsibility to understand and
as part of PwC’s global network, we’ve committed to disclose how climate change affects our business. We
net zero emissions by 2030 with respect to our own are committed to building trust through transparency.
operations, validated by the Science Based Targets This report, while the first disclosure of its kind for PwC
initiative. US, builds upon PwC’s global leadership on climate
change disclosure, having previously published two
We recognize that climate change demands action
global reports aligned with the recommendations of
now from all segments of society. It’s a global issue
the Task Force on Climate-related Financial
with ramifications that go beyond implications to
Disclosures (TCFD). In this report, we focus on the
our business. Climate change impacts our planet’s
risks climate poses to our US and Mexico firms, as
ecosystems, the resiliency of our economies, the
well as our Acceleration Centers, so that we can
stability of our political systems, our personal security,
continue to strategically plan and respond to the
our health and our prosperity. Importantly, climate
uncertain impacts of climate change. These impacts
change is also an equity issue. While no group is
can also have far-reaching implications for society, as
immune to climate change, we know that underserved
the management of our climate-related risks and
populations will often be the first and most deeply
opportunities aids our efforts to advance climate
affected by its devastating impacts.
strategies within our clients’ operations.
We’re committed to bringing together our community
We’ve made significant progress, but we still must
of solvers, along with a diverse set of stakeholders, to
address specific risks and opportunities to continue to
drive this necessary change. This includes our active
build trust among our stakeholders, secure the future
work with regulators and helping corporations to
of our business and achieve our 2030 net zero
prepare for the SEC’s coming greenhouse gas (GHG)
commitment.
reporting mandates and other sustainability efforts.
PwC’s climate action timeline
2002 2010 2012 2015 2021
PwC Global community First full-time First GHG PwC US signed President First purchase of Sustainable
signs the United Nations environment emissions Obama’s American Business Act Aviation Fuel (SAF)
Global Compact promoting employee inventory of Climate Pledge to support
sustainable development hired published action on climate change Began supporting the World
in PwC US Economic Forum in the creation
corporate Began purchasing carbon of a SAFc framework through
responsibility offsets for Scope 3 emissions pro bono work
report (air travel)
PwC joins the LEAF Coalition
Firm becomes signatory on
2007 2011 2014 2019
WEF Clean Skies for
Firm began measuring First public Firm reaches Firm achieves carbon
Tomorrow 2030 Ambition
carbon footprint for our carbon emissions 100% renewable neutrality and joins the
Statement
operations reduction energy Evergreen Alliance committing
commitment to global carbon offsetting
2008 made by PwC US through reforestation 2023
Firm began supporting CDP with Published first PwC
global carbon disclosure reporting 2020 US TCFD Report
through pro bono work PwC global community commits to net
zero emissions by 2030
PwC US business growth is decoupled
from energy consumption
3About this report
Overview of the Task Force on Climate- recommendations in 2017. Our firm’s support of the
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) TCFD includes providing data and analytic services,
serving as a member of the Metrics and Targets
The TCFD was established in 2015 by the international working group, supporting the World Business Council
Financial Stability Board (FSB) in response to a request for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Preparers
from the G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Forum and providing ongoing support to the Energy
Governors. Given the uncertainty climate change System Reference Scenarios project to improve the
presents to the global economy, the FSB created the consistency and comparability of climate scenarios.
TCFD to improve disclosure of climate-related risks to We believe that increased transparency in disclosing a
businesses around the world. Support for the TCFD has company’s climate risk will help to incentivize positive
grown to over 3,000 organizations from 92 countries behaviors and enable stakeholders to make informed
with a combined market capitalization of $27.2 trillion. decisions.
In the US, the TCFD recommendations serve as the
The four pillars of TCFD disclosure
foundation of the SEC’s climate disclosure proposal.
The TCFD recommendations’ alignment with global
environmental, social and governance (ESG) standards
is growing. In 2021, the International Financial
Governance
Reporting Standards (IFRS) announced the formation of
the International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB),
which will use the TCFD recommendations as a basis Strategy
for its work.
The TCFD has set forth voluntary recommendations Risk
Management
that inform corporate disclosures about climate-
related risks and opportunities. These disclosures can
provide greater transparency for stakeholders including
Metrics
customers, regulators and investors into the types
and
of climate-related risks and opportunities companies
Targets
face, and how they manage them. While traditional
climate-related reporting focuses on a business’ impact
on the environment, the TCFD provides a lens on how
climate change impacts each business. The analysis
Governance: Disclose an organization’s protocols around
required to meet the TCFD recommendations can
climate-related risks and opportunities.
drive increased levels of awareness and knowledge
throughout a business of climate-related risks, Strategy: Disclose the actual and potential impacts of material
climate-related risks and opportunities on an organization’s
informing process and strategy. The TCFD also aims
business, strategy and financial planning.
to provide external stakeholders with more consistent
reporting across companies for analysis, decision- Risk Management: Disclose how an organization identifies,
making and regulatory alignment. assesses and manages climate-related risks.
PwC supports the broader adoption of TCFD reporting. Metrics and Targets: Disclose the metrics and targets used to
assess and manage relevant material climate-related risks and
The multiple positive outcomes it should deliver will
opportunities.
help accelerate transformation efforts by businesses,
driving us more quickly towards the net zero future we
collectively aim to achieve. We have been a member
of the TCFD since 2016, ahead of the first launch of its
4Report scope and methodology
Scope
Unless specifically noted otherwise, all references
to PwC in this report relate specifically to PwC US,
PwC Mexico and PwC US owned or jointly owned
Acceleration Centers (ACs), which include operations
in Argentina, India, China, Malaysia, Mexico and the
United States. In the US, PwC’s footprint includes over
65,000 staff working across 79 offices. Six years ago,
we combined our PwC US and PwC Mexico firms to
better serve our clients, deliver quality, provide new
experiences for our people and be ready for the future.
PwC Mexico is made up of more than 2,500 additional
people across five office locations.
ACs are global talent hubs of diverse, highly skilled
professionals who work seamlessly with our US
engagement teams and business segments on
complex client engagements and internal projects. By
bringing together a tech-enabled community of solvers
across diverse geographies, cultures and backgrounds,
we can deliver services with agility, capability and a
unique global perspective. And with substantial depth
and breadth of skills and competencies, our AC team
members play an important role in helping our clients
build trust and deliver sustained outcomes. Our US-
owned or jointly owned international ACs grew 67%
over the last year, to more than 11,000 employees
across Bangalore, Mumbai, Shanghai and Mexico City.
Time horizons
While as a firm we have already made strides toward
our climate commitment, there’s still a complex and
challenging journey ahead. Climate change creates
emerging risks and opportunities for our business.
Unless otherwise stated, our analysis provides a
forward-looking approach to assess the potential risks
and opportunities that may be caused by a changing
climate under various climate scenarios.
The TCFD Framework’s categorization of transition
risks and physical risks was adopted to assess how
various climate risks may impact PwC. These risks
and opportunities have then been further grouped by a
categorization of topics most material to the firm. We
have defined three time horizons for our analysis and
used them to categorize risks and opportunities: short
term (0-5 years), medium term (6-10 years) and long
term (11+ years).
5Stakeholder priority assessment owned or jointly owned Acceleration Centers through
in-depth interviews to review and enhance this initial
In conjunction with this TCFD analysis, and to help
perspective. Additional information on this process can
inform our approach, we conducted a stakeholder
be found in our Stakeholder Priority Assessment and
priority assessment to identify the ESG key areas
GRI Index.
for success within the business and for our clients:
building trust, solving important problems and
These focus areas are dynamic. As major shifts
promoting a culture of belonging. The combination of
continue to shape our world, we will consistently
these priority topics support our purpose and inclusion
monitor and periodically refresh our assessment of the
strategy and our ability to deliver sustained outcomes
firm’s key ESG priorities. An accurate understanding of
for our clients and society.
the firm’s priorities will help support our future-forward
approach of uniting our community of solvers to better
In identifying the firm’s priority focus areas, we began
serve our client’s sustainable solutions. As the focus
with an evaluation of the key topics impacting the
on the impact a business has on the people and world
market and our peers. Once an initial perspective
around it continues to intensify, continued stakeholder
of topics was consolidated from that research, we
engagement will help establish additional priorities.
consulted with members of the executive leadership
team across PwC US, PwC Mexico and our US-
Stakeholder priority assessment focus areas
Solve important problems Promote a culture of belonging
In an increasingly complex world, we Our people are the heart of our organization. We invest in
strive to deliver quality work and our workforce, clients and communities, and we embrace
exceptional service to our clients through the importance of demonstrating leadership
a human-led, tech-powered approach. in diversity, equity and inclusion.
- Deliver quality services to help clients navigate the - Challenge the status quo and demonstrate leadership in
evolving regulatory landscape diversity, equality and inclusion programs and initiatives
- Strengthen human-led services with - Invest in our people and retain talent
tech-powered solutions to adapt by providing support and
our business model to shifting opportunities for them to thrive
market dynamics
- Engage with our communities,
- Work with our clients to identify, speak up to hold each other
prepare for and respond to accountable, and respect
risk of climate change human rights
Build trust
We lead with integrity, transparency and purpose.
Having a positive impact on the capital markets and society through
our work is a responsibility and opportunity that we welcome.
- Demonstrate responsible industry leadership through ethical and transparent business practices
- Deliver industry-leading data security for our people and clients and diligently protect client privacy
- Help our clients as they seek to create long-term business and societal value by
building trust and delivering sustained outcomes
6Governance at PwC
Governance of climate strategy GLT, three times to the Strategy Board and six times
to the Global Markets Leadership Team in the last 12
Global climate governance months, on our targets and approach to decarbonize
our business, and how we’re responding to climate
The PwC global network includes offices in 155
change risks and opportunities for our business. In
countries and more than 327,000 people. The Network
addition, the Global Corporate Sustainability Leader
Leadership Team (NLT) sets the overall strategy for
meets with the Global Markets Leader at least monthly
the PwC network and the standards to which member
and on an ad hoc basis. The Territory Senior Partner
firms agree to adhere. The NLT is composed of five
(TSP) of each member firm has appointed a Net Zero
leaders from key PwC regions, provides strategic
Business Leader who is responsible for defining and
direction and any global initiatives, including our net
implementing net zero plans in their territories as
zero commitment. Tim Ryan, the US firm’s Chair and
well as providing updates to the Global Corporate
Senior Partner, represents PwC US on the NLT. The
Sustainability Team.
Global Leadership Team (GLT) is appointed by, and
reports to, the NLT. Its members are responsible for
US climate governance
leading teams drawn from PwC member firms to
coordinate and lead PwC’s activities across all areas We are a purpose-led and values-driven organization,
of the business, including our lines of service, and and that mindset fuels our commitment to building trust
network functional teams. Management and oversight in society and solving important problems. As such, the
of our climate agenda, including our net zero program US Board and Tim Ryan, our Chair and TSP, prioritize
and how we are transitioning our business to be climate along with other environmental sustainability;
sustainable in a low carbon economy is provided by diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI); and social equity
the NLT. It confirms there is business ownership and commitments. The Board and its committees have
accountability. the ultimate oversight of our approach to considering
climate related risks and opportunities throughout
Our Global Net Zero Leadership Team was replaced the organization. Our US Leadership Team (USLT)
in April 2022 by a newly formed Global Corporate assists the firm’s Senior Partner in managing the firm
Sustainability Leadership Team (GCSLT) as the and discharging the Senior Partner’s responsibilities.
primary management body relating to our corporate Together, they establish and determine the
sustainability agenda. It is led by our Global Corporate effectiveness of the firm’s system of internal control.
Sustainability Leader to review our corporate
sustainability objectives, progress and impact. Our Purpose and Inclusion function is leading the
The GCSLT monitors progress toward our net zero firm’s climate efforts. This team oversees all aspects
commitment, including our science-based targets, as of internal ESG strategy including environmental
well as our broader business transition to adapt to the sustainability, DEI, employee engagement and
risks and opportunities that climate change will likely community investment. PwC’s Chief Purpose and
bring for our business. Inclusion Officer, Shannon Schuyler, leads the Purpose
and Inclusion function and serves as the firm’s Net
In addition, a Climate Steering Committee was Zero Business Leader. Our Chief Purpose and Inclusion
established this year. The committee is responsible Officer also leads the firm’s annual environmental
for alignment in our climate policy positioning across measurement, reporting and audit process, which
the network as well as connecting that positioning concentrates on our GHG footprint for scopes 1-3. She
between our market services and our own corporate also oversees our environmental targets and approach
sustainability agenda. The committee is chaired by the to decarbonize our business. This initiative and its
Global Corporate Sustainability Leader and reports progress is reported to the USLT and the Board.
periodically to our Global Markets Leader, who is a
member of the GLT. Our Global Corporate Sustainability
Leader has reported once to the NLT, once to the
7Chaired by our Chief Purpose and Inclusion Officer, the implementing as it relates to climate. This team
Net Zero Committee includes representatives from key analyzes media and publications and has frequent
functions of the firm including Purpose and Inclusion, conversations with government officials and regulators.
Trust, Consulting, Business Services, Finance, Specific personnel within the team are focused on
Procurement, Public Policy, Real Estate and the Tech monitoring topics that relate to climate, which are
Impact Office. The Net Zero Committee met virtually then shared with the firm through weekly internal
five times in FY22 to discuss the implementation of newsletters.
various aspects of the firm’s net zero commitment,
including measurement and disclosure, emissions Climate data oversight
reduction opportunities, renewable energy purchasing Concern for the environment isn’t new for us — nor
and carbon offsetting strategy. is transparency about our actions and results. We set
our first carbon reduction goal in 2007. In 2011, we
Governance of the risk management function
began reporting our progress annually. We’re applying
Management of climate-related risks and opportunities the lessons from more than a decade of measuring our
is a shared responsibility that is carried out by GHG footprint to transparently disclose progress and
the Purpose and Inclusion function together with drive further changes to business as usual. As such,
management teams across the organization. The we’re continually working with stakeholders inside and
Risk & Quality (R&Q) Committee provides oversight outside of our business to refine how we collect that
and monitors the appropriate policies, processes and data. For additional information on our FY22 reporting,
procedures for managing and reducing risks of the firm. please reference the Metrics and targets section of
The Board provides strategic direction, governance this report. Today, all of our GHG emissions data are
and oversight when establishing the US Enterprise externally reviewed in accordance with the attestation
Risk Management (ERM) program that aims to identify standards established by the American Institute
and prioritize the components of enterprise-level risk, of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA), and PwC
and facilitate the development of specific action plans internally performs a professional review involved in
to mitigate each identified top risk. In addition, senior testing processes and controls to support the quality of
management from Trust Solutions and Consulting this data. The Chief Data Officer and the data team are
Solutions are collaborating to address climate change building capabilities to support the centralization and
risks and opportunities that most directly impact their improvement of our internal ESG data, including GHG
functions. emissions.
Monitoring public climate policy PwC Mexico and the ACs are working towards the
same net zero commitment and are aligned with the
The Public Policy team monitors climate policy updates
same measurement, reporting and GHG mitigation
through the lens of our firm’s risks and opportunities
initiatives as PwC US. The US firm is responsible
as well as those of our clients. This includes what
for tracking the progress for the US, Mexico and
policy makers are thinking and what regulators are
ACs. Leaders from Mexico, the ACs, and the US
have frequent meetings discussing the coordination,
monitoring and implementation of key initiatives and
alignment on strategy and procedures.
8Strategy
How we are collaborating to of a financial reporting vocabulary (XBRL taxonomy).
address climate change The goal is to make ESG disclosures simpler for
businesses and make data aggregation and analytics
Climate change is a societal problem that requires more effective for investors. PwC US also funded a
a collective effort among industry, government and recently completed project between PwC Netherlands
nonprofit stakeholders. Helping our clients understand and the World Economic Forum to develop emissions
and navigate the challenges climate change poses for accounting and reporting guidelines for sustainable
them and their stakeholders is central to how we can aviation fuel (SAF), a critical step in developing a
help in the global transition to a low-carbon world. We standardized framework that will allow SAF to be used
have a long history of helping organizations build trust as a tool to reduce emissions across the aviation and
in their operations through reliable data and accurate travel value chains.
reporting processes. That experience is especially
We’re proud to lend our voice in support of these
meaningful today as scrutiny of environmental, societal
measures.
and governance credentials intensifies.
We also recognize that we have an unprecedented
That’s why we’ve taken a stance on the SEC’s
opportunity to ignite our community of solvers to
proposed new rules for climate change disclosure. We
implement climate solutions for our clients. We actively
support the SEC proposal as a significant step toward
support our clients in understanding and navigating
transparency—and accountability—around companies’
the uncertainties and challenges related to climate
environmental action and climate risks. We have,
change. We work with our clients to support their
however, offered recommendations to make the final
efforts to foster a net zero future for all by building on
rules more operational and to improve the decision-
existing client work in environmental sustainability and
usefulness of the information for investors. Among our
net zero transformation. Some of the services offered
recommendations are the application of a “management
to our clients to help transition to a net zero future and
lens” to focus the scope of disclosures, the narrowing
become more resilient include climate risk modeling,
of the range of scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions
climate change strategy, reporting solutions and
disclosures, and sufficient time to ensure registrants can
preparation for new regulations and climate disclosure
produce investor-grade information.
rules. We help clients implement ESG aspects into
As a firm we are not subject to the proposal; however, we everyday operations, including multidisciplinary
intend to voluntarily incorporate reporting consistent with services, to support large scale, sustainability-driven
the SEC rule when it is final. We will also continue to work business transformations. With our help, clients can get
with clients on their own voluntary disclosures, including started on their ESG strategy, understand and leverage
providing the benefits of assurance by an independent, the various ESG standards and frameworks such as
objective auditor. Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
Globally, the PwC Network is supportive of two major
(TCFD), develop investment-grade ESG metrics that
international proposals for climate disclosures, one from
can be trusted by shareholders and tech-enable the
the International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB)
ESG reporting journey to make the data useful to
and the other from the European Union’s Corporate
their businesses.
Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD). For both
these proposed sets of rules, as well as for the SEC Our firm’s strategy includes a plan to grow and scale
proposal, our position is the same: We support these our technology and capabilities related to climate in
recommendations as important steps toward greater order to help our clients in their efforts to decarbonize
transparency on environmental impact and ESG data. and transition toward net zero. This will require an
investment to develop our services and secure the
Leveraging our core competencies, we’re also working
talent needed to meet this urgent challenge. The result
pro bono with the International Financial Reporting
can lead to transformational change, not only for our
Standards Foundation, to create a formal definition
clients, but for the world.
9How we are reducing our emissions foot- and communities. Because climate change
print: PwC’s 2030 net zero commitment disproportionately impacts underserved groups, we
view our climate actions through the lens of equitable
Driven by our purpose, we feel a deep obligation and opportunity, further solidifying the need for progress.
responsibility to address root causes of climate and To address our own impacts, as part of the PwC
reduce the footprint of our own operations. This work global network, we have committed to achieve net
is fundamental to the future of thriving societies and zero GHG emissions in 2030. We’ll achieve this goal
requires a broad coalition. We’re in a unique position to by implementing a six-pronged framework that’s
bring together our community of solvers with diverse collaborative with our client, supplier and community
stakeholders—across the spectrum of industries and stakeholders, and rooted in science and tangible
demographics—to drive change. targets.
No group is immune to the effects of climate change,
and these efforts offer the opportunity to build trust
across businesses, organizations, governments
Our six net zero focus areas
Using FY19 levels as a base year, PwC will regularly and transparently report
Measuring and
on progress against its commitments, enhancing its greenhouse gas (GHG)
disclosing impact
emissions reporting to align with our network wide net zero targets.
Reducing Reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 emissions by 50% from a FY19 baseline
direct emissions by 2030.
Continuing to use
Ensure that our operations in the US, Mexico and our Acceleration Centers
100% renewable
continue to source 100% renewable electricity.
electricity
Managing business Reduce absolute business travel emissions—in partnership with the airline in-
travel impact dustry and other business leaders—by 50% from an FY19 baseline by 2030.
Commit that 50% of our purchased goods and services suppliers (by emissions)
Engaging suppliers
have set science-based targets to reduce their own climate impact by 2025.
Continue to offset our emissions through high-quality carbon credits,
Offsetting emissions
transitioning our carbon offset portfolio to 100% carbon removals by 2030.
10Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions definitions TCFD assessment process
We discuss our firm metrics and targets subsequently
Summary
in this report, with specific reference to how our
firm measures GHG emissions. Having said that, an While we’ve already made strides toward our climate
understanding of the definitions of key terms on how commitment, there’s still a complex and challenging
the industry categorizes scope 1, scope 2 and scope journey ahead. Climate change creates emerging
3 emissions is essential for understanding our net zero risks and opportunities for our business. Unless
commitment. otherwise stated, our analysis provides a forward
looking approach to assess the potential risks and
opportunities that may be caused by a changing
Scope 1
Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions that occur from climate, under various climate scenarios.
sources that are controlled or owned by an organization
(e.g., emissions associated with fuel combustion in boilers, The TCFD Framework’s categorization of transition
furnaces, vehicles). risks and physical risks was adopted to assess how
various climate risks may impact PwC. These risks
Scope 2 and opportunities have then been further grouped by a
Indirect GHG emissions associated with the purchase of categorization of topics most material to the firm.
electricity, steam, heat or cooling. Although scope 2 emissions
physically occur at the facility where they are generated, they
Qualitative risk assessment
are accounted for in an organization’s GHG inventory because
they are a result of the organization’s energy use. To understand our firm’s approach to the four key
pillars of TCFD we conducted a qualitative risk
Scope 3 assessment involving detailed interviews with our
Emissions from assets not owned or controlled by the leadership team within PwC US, PwC Mexico
reporting organization, but that the organization indirectly
and our ACs. The interviews aimed to obtain the
impacts in its value chain. Scope 3 emissions include all
leadership team’s input on relevant climate risks and
sources not within an organization’s scope 1 and 2 boundary.
The scope 3 emissions for one organization can be the scope opportunities, activities to date and plans for the future.
1 and 2 emissions of another organization. Scope 3 emissions, Responses were aggregated and integrated into a
also referred to as value chain emissions, often represent the climate risk assessment and gap assessment. The
majority of an organization’s total GHG emissions.
assessment provides an overall view of our current
climate-related processes and climate risk exposure.
Physical risk
The physical impacts of climate change, usually from more
extreme and frequent weather events.
Transition risk
The impacts that result from the transition to a lower carbon
economy (impacts could be caused by policy changes,
shifts in supply chain, and consumer demand for products or
changing public perception of products or companies).
11Scenario analysis in-house climate scientists, to model various weather
perils in order to determine how climate shifts can
As climate change continues to affect the world we
affect our business.
live in, the efforts humanity takes to mitigate emissions
can alter the amount of global warming expected in
Our analysis uses two of the IPCC’s Shared
the future. These outcomes can also alter some of the
Socioeconomic Pathways (SSP) climate scenarios:
risks our firm will face, as higher warming increases risk
SSP 1-2.6 and SSP 5-8.5. These two scenarios are
of physical damage whereas lower warming results in
widely accepted in physical risk modeling to represent
greater transition risk. To understand PwC’s exposure
outcomes in both a “low” and “high” warming scenario.
to the physical impacts of climate change and risks
SSP1-2.6 represents the “low” warming scenario,
related to the transition to a low carbon economy, we
characterized by the broad adoption of carbon
conducted scenario analyses including a physical risk
transition policies that provide substantial net negative
assessment and a transition risk assessment. Scenario
global GHG emissions, similar to the well-below 2°C
analysis is a well-established method for developing
warming scenario in the Paris Agreement. Alternatively,
strategic plans that are more flexible or thorough to a
SSP5-8.5 represents the “high” warming scenario,
range of plausible future states. This helps us identify
characterized by minimal efforts made to reduce global
where climate risks are most likely to impact PwC and
GHG emissions.
ultimately inform strategies to protect our physical
assets and our people as well as the resilience of our The physical perils modeled include hurricane, tornado,
business model. We assessed the potential risks and hail, windstorm, drought, flood, wildfire and storm
opportunities regarding key geographic locations and surge. The modeling resulted in an assigned risk score
the potential impact to our business model, clients and ranging from 0 (very low risk) to 100 (extreme risk). This
the broader economy under various climate scenarios allows us to analyze PwC people and assets exposure
that have been established by the Intergovernmental to climate impacts. A summary of the results from the
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and International physical risk assessment is below, and more details
Energy Agency (IEA), which are commonly used to may be found in the appendix.
measure climate risk exposure. The scenario analysis is
Based on this analysis, climate change is not projected
inclusive of PwC US, PwC Mexico and our US owned
to significantly increase our offices’ exposure to
or jointly owned ACs.
physical risks. At present, 38 offices face a risk level
Physical risk assessment of high or greater from at least one physical climate
hazard. Under a High Emissions scenario this drops
Physical risk refers to the physical impacts of climate
to 34 by 2050 due to reduced exposure to high wind
change such as from extreme weather events and
gust risk.
the increased frequency of such events or overall
shifts in climatic behavior, such as temperature and
precipitation patterns.
We conducted a physical climate risk exposure analysis
on office, data center and employee home locations
in the US, Mexico and ACs in Argentina, China, India
and Malaysia. We leveraged Geospatial Climate
Intelligence, a proprietary PwC tool developed by
12Present risk to our offices
in the US
As most offices are leased,
direct damage to an asset may
not significantly impact the firm.
Still, widespread damage to
infrastructure could affect our
employees’ ability to access the
office or work from home. Hail,
wind, tornado, and flood all present
extreme risk at least one of our
offices in the US. The sizes of the
icons represent the likelihood and
severity of the primary physical
hazard; or, the peril with the max
hazard score for the location.
Hail Wind gusts Tropical cyclone Drought Flood Wildfire
Housing, proximity to an office, and salary all factor into office, employee home locations become increasingly
our employees’ capacity to continue work following important to the firm’s resilience. Our employees may
natural disasters, ultimately impacting PwC’s ability to work from home, client locations, or elsewhere. For
provide services to our clients. With the introduction of the purposes of this analysis, climate risk to employee
strategies such as The New Equation and My+, more home locations is blended and displayed by zip code
employees have the option to work remotely. In the level and was otherwise anonymized, noting that we
event of a natural disaster, offices can be a safe haven do not indicate climate risk to individual places of
for employees, providing access to a temperature- residence or client locations.
controlled environment or electricity. Without a nearby
This map highlights the highest present
day hazard to our US employees by zip
code. Overall risk exposure to different
perils vary by geographic region.
Hail Wind gusts Tropical cyclone Drought Flood Wildfire
13Transition risk assessment Climate Excellence tool to model the impact to our
clients’ annual earnings, which was estimated to be
Transition risk refers to the shift to a lower carbon
proportional to our firm’s revenue from that client.
economy and is driven by policy changes, disruptive
technologies, shifts in supply chain and consumer
Our analysis was performed at the client level and
demand for products or changing public perception of
aggregated by sector, industry and line of service.
products or companies.
The results help us identify our most at-risk clients so
we can help them, while simultaneously providing a
The goal of our transition risk assessment was to
view on how our own business might transform in the
determine the potential impact to our business model,
future. This enables us to assess directional potential
clients and the broader economy under various climate
impact to asset values, adequately manage risks and
scenarios. The IEA Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS)
set up a long-term sustainability strategy and compliant
represents a “high” warming scenario corresponding to
reporting. The summary results from the transition risk
an approximately 2.7°C temperature increase, and the
assessment are below, and more details may be found
Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS) represents
in the appendix.
a “low” warming scenario corresponding to a 1.8°C
temperature increase. We used PwC’s proprietary
13800
13600
13400
13200
13000
12800
12600
This analysis uses a static balance sheet and does not consider any PwC revenue growth projections. The impact is based on client earnings under varying climate
scenarios. The top 80% of clients by FY21 revenue were included in this analysis as well as significant client relationships.
14
)snoillim(
eunever
detcejorP
1202 2202 3202 4202 5202 6202 7202 8202 9202 0302 1302 2302 3302 4302 5302 6302 7302 8302 9302 0402 1402 2402 3402 4402 5402 6402 7402 8402 9402 0502
1.8° C scenario 2.7° C scenarioAn overview of our findings
The major strategic implications for our business can be summarized by reference to the scenarios described as
follows.
Transition implications Physical and transition implications Physical implications
Emphasis: Low warming scenario Emphasis: Both scenarios Emphasis: High warming scenario
The “low” warming scenario is Some risks and opportunities will arise The “high” warming scenario is
characterized by a greater level of regardless of the climate scenario. characterized by a greater level of
transition impacts driven by the carbon physical impact given the escalating
transition policies put in place and • The need to live up to market claims weather related events that are the
disruption as the economy transitions to a around trust with a focus on climate, corollary of unsuccessful efforts to reduce
low carbon world. aligning our marketing and actions global GHG emissions.
around climate.
• Pressure on sectors with high • The need to plan for the impact of
levels of transition risk, such as • The need to adapt our core services potential acute and chronic climate
Energy and Utility, Transportation, to embed consideration of climate events on our physical assets and our
and Manufacturing, can impact the related matters. For example, if a people.
financial results of our portfolio. client engages us on a physical
footprint strategy, climate risk should • The portfolio impact of potential
• The greater need for continued be considered as part of the decision- acute and chronic climate events in
assessment of the impact of climate making process. geographies with high climate risk
change on policy and legal risk, given exposure.
greater amounts of regulation in this • The development and scaling of new
scenario, technology risk, market and emerging climate services to
risk and reputational risk, and to plan support clients, such as climate risk
for how various climate risk drivers modeling of physical assets.
associated with the transition to a
• Continued ability to attract and retain
low carbon economy will impact our
talent with the skills and experience
business.
to help our clients, whether they’re
looking to transition to lower
emissions in a low warming scenario
or to cope with increasing physical
risk in a high warming scenario.
We have identified the risks and opportunities our firm faces through interviews with PwC’s senior leadership
as well as scenario analyses of transition and physical risks, and additionally performed an accompanying
assessment of these risks. We have defined three time horizons for our analysis and used them to categorize
risks and opportunities: short term (0-5 years), medium term (6-10 years), long term (11+ years). The table below
summarizes what we currently believe to be the most significant climate-related risks and opportunities relevant
to our business. A more detailed assessment following the TCFD Framework’s categorization of transition and
physical risks can be found in the appendix.
15Most significant firm risks and opportunities
Type of risk Category Potential risks/ Time Business impact Business response
opportunities horizon
Reputational Legal Incorporation of Short term As the markets and regulators PwC has identified a potential
climate in services. increasingly emphasize the opportunity to simplify and
Evolving US policy impact of climate change, we improve the measurement
has the potential Increased investor will likely have to adapt our and management of climate
to either constrain and consumer focus service offerings, including audit change for our clients through
or promote climate regarding the effects of services, to remain at the forefront our services. We intend to work
mitigation and climate change may lead of innovative new technology closely with clients on adapting
adaptation strategies. to new regulations that and retain and attract a staff of to new regulations and mitigating
Potential risks could could lead to additional sustainability specialists. climate risks while managing our
stem from climate service offerings, own exposure to climate-related
litigation. new technology and/ risks.
or additional staffing
opportunities.
Brand We may be seen as Medium As the market evolves and the We are focused on maintaining
not living up to market term demand for climate-focused trust with our clients through
Climate change has claims around trust. services increases, we may be leading by example, aligned
been identified as exposed to losing market share with The New Equation. Due to
a potential source The focus on climate to peers if we fail to meet market the importance PwC places on
of risk tied to could impact our expectations, and our own claims trust and transparency, we have
changing customer brand reputation if we around climate. We may also committed to net zero emissions
or community fail to meet market face scrutiny from environmental and to transparently disclose
perceptions of expectations. activists and staff that could our own climate risks. We will
an organization’s target the firm for similar reasons. continue to meet our clients
contribution to or where they are and guide them
detraction from the along their climate journey.
transition to a low-
carbon economy.
Potential failure to Medium Our environmental sustainability Our 2030 net zero commitment
align our actions to our term performance has not been is part of the firm’s broader
stated commitments raised as a customer concern to Purpose and Inclusion strategy.
around climate. date. However, if environmental We will continue to evolve this
sustainability and climate risk commitment in line with accepted
Customer purchasing were to become a greater leading practice. As part of this,
policies may shift to concern for customers, we could we have a potential opportunity
favor competitors based be evaluated against peers. to market our services as a
on more expansive Conversely, certain clients or low-carbon offering, helping our
or less expansive prospects could view any climate clients lower scope 3 emissions
commitments. commitment unfavorably. while promoting our commitment
to the environment.
16Type of risk Category Potential risks/ Time Business impact Business response
opportunities horizon
Strategic Talent Attract and retain top Short term We could be exposed to risks We continue to publicly promote
talent related to staffing, recruiting, our values, such as with our
Aligning with our turnover and retention which reimagined people experience,
people’s purpose Failure to make may affect diversity and access My+, our net zero commitment
and supporting our meaningful progress to the right specialization if PwC and investment in ESG. As we
people in navigating with respect to client is not perceived to be aligned grow our climate-related service
the challenges and market emissions with employee and prospective offerings and public awareness of
related to climate reductions may impact employee values. climate change increases, we will
change. the ability to attract and continue to innovate high-quality
retain talent. Current service offerings and maintain and
or prospective talent attract a staff of environmental
may also view any specialists. We will simultaneously
climate commitment continue to act with integrity
unfavorably. and both expect and deliver the
highest quality outcomes.
Reduced workforce Medium Because of the distributed nature With the introduction of strategies
productivity term of our offices, we do not expect such as The New Equation and
our operation to face significant My+, more employees have the
Potential rising incidents climate impacts. Employee home option to work remotely, making
of physical risk impacts locations, however, may be more employees’ homes increasingly
(from severe weather vulnerable to severe weather important to the firm’s resilience.
events) on health and events. In the event of a natural disaster,
work productivity of our offices can be a safe haven for
workforce. employees, providing access
to a temperature-controlled
environment, running water or
electricity.
Employee location Long term Our employees may move farther Our real estate strategy considers
from their office if the office the impact to employees. To the
Chronic weather location is in a high climate-risk extent our employees migrate due
changes may cause area, due to potential increased to climate or affordability issues,
additional workforce risk of physical harm and lack their location and commuting
migration and/or of affordable housing and distance would be considered in
affordability issues. commensurate insurance. deciding where to place offices.
Client Business mix Short term We could be slow to respond to We have invested heavily in
new markets/subsectors, such growing our ESG and Risk
Supporting A potentially missed as renewables, climate tech, Modeling Services practices.
our clients in opportunity to respond public private partnerships, or These teams have made
understanding to emerging climate/ESG regenerative agriculture. Our significant strides in hiring leading
and navigating the markets. competitors may react quicker talent and reaching the forefront
challenges related to and gain market share in of climate consulting services.
climate change. consulting services. Our quick response provides an
opportunity to capitalize on these
new markets as they emerge and
to gain recognition with our clients
for being the go-to provider for
high-quality climate services.
Regulatory disruption Short term Regulatory disruption can Our business does well with
lead to more client demand uncertainty, as we are well
Significant changes in for professional services firms, positioned to help our clients
regulation may drive particularly within the accounting navigate emerging issues. Thus,
increased needs from profession. Our allocation of it’s important that we have the
clients. client service resources reflects knowledge and talent readily
this supply and demand market available to rapidly respond to
dynamic. new regulations. We’ve invested
heavily in attracting leading talent
and building our climate offerings
so that we’re well equipped
to handle a surge in demand,
whether regulatory or market
driven.
17Type of risk Category Potential risks/ Time Business impact Business response
opportunities horizon
Strategic Client Revenue execution Medium To the extent that client earnings The experience that we have
(continued) (continued) term are impacted as a result of climate within the firm, our client focus,
Clients may be impacted change, there may be a reduction technology and ability to mobilize
by physical and in client willingness and ability to around what is happening in the
transition risk, with some requisition consulting services. regulatory space, makes us well
proving more prepared This could result in loss of positioned to help clients to not
and resilient than others, consulting revenue for PwC. only report on climate issues but
affecting consulting also build their resiliency. While
services spend. some consulting services may be
reduced due to client decreases in
earnings, we have an opportunity
to promote our ESG services and
help our clients overcome the
negative impacts from climate
change or increased regulations.
We continue to invest in our ESG
people, technology, and service
offerings so that we are well
positioned to help our clients.
Increasing client Medium As businesses look to grow their We’ve already begun to invest
expectations term own understanding of climate in new services, such as the
risk and comply with any relevant development of Geospatial
Clients may seek regulation, there may be an Climate Intelligence which
complex and bespoke increased need for sophisticated is our in-house physical risk
service offerings that services. In addition, clients are climate model, in anticipation
our competitors may already requesting increased of evolving client needs. We’ve
offer and may otherwise transparency on the impact of also enhanced the measurement
expect us to lead by delivering our services, such and reporting of our GHG
example. as individual project carbon emissions to be able to track the
footprinting. carbon footprint of each client
relationship.
Operational Third-party vendor Third-party vendor Short term As we include the impact We currently calculate supplier
reliability misrepresentations of purchased goods and emissions through category
services in our scope 3 spend and publicly available
Failure of third- Vendor emissions, inaccuracies or emissions factors, thus there’s a
parties to meet misrepresentations misrepresentations by our low risk of misrepresentation in
obligations may about action on climate suppliers could impact our ability the short term. In the near future,
impact our ability to could impact our ability to report on our firm’s emissions we plan to engage directly with
do business. to report our total accurately. our suppliers to understand the
climate impact and meet steps they are taking on climate
the supplier engagement and encourage them to set
component of our net science-based GHG targets. This
zero commitment. will include methods to confirm
the accuracy of information
provided.
Acute physical risk Increased frequency Medium Our office buildings and data Climate change is not projected to
and severity of extreme term centers may be impacted, significantly increase our offices’
Physical locations weather events resulting in a loss of work exposure to physical risks. As
may be affected by productivity. most offices are leased, the
increasingly severe Floods, wind storms, direct damage to an asset may
weather conditions. cyclones, wildfires, not significantly impact the firm.
storm surges, hail, However, widespread damage
drought, etc. to infrastructure could impact
employees’ ability to travel to
the office, reducing productivity.
Increased remote work options
for our employees are good for
resilience and can help reduce our
office footprint.
18Type of risk Category Potential risks/ Time Business impact Business response
opportunities horizon
Operational Chronic physical Changes in Long term Chronic changes in weather We recognize that a responsible
(continued) risk precipitation patterns patterns could increase our business environment and climate
and extreme variability costs to operate office locations, efforts are critical investments
Chronic changes in weather patterns including increased electricity or for a resilient business. We are
in weather patterns other costs due to rising chronic considering how physical climate
could increase Increased levels of heat, decreasing precipitation, risks may influence our people
operational costs precipitation in countries and rising sea levels. strategy. Physical risks such as
of certain physical or regions in which PwC extreme weather events could
locations. operates. impact our business, the locations
of our offices, our employees
home locations and our clients.
Business continuity strategies
are essential to prepare and
mitigate the impact of physical
risks. We are working on aligning
and diversifying AC locations to
establish backups and mitigate
risk.
For the AC locations in India,
extreme weather events
pose a continuity risk. We
are continuously working on
enhancing the resiliency plans
that are already in place. At our
AC locations, site-level initiatives
have been implemented to
promote work options that could
lower the environmental impact
and ultimately improve the work
environment for our people.
Initiatives range from office design
to car-pooling and in-office
reductions of paper, electricity
and water. Reimbursement
policies have been implemented
alongside high speed internet
and equipment to enable remote
working options.
Credit and Market shifts Sudden market shocks Short term Our clients, when impacted by We have a very diverse client
liquidity sudden market shocks, may slow base, so industry-specific market
The potential Market shifts may buying which can hinder our shocks are less likely to cause
uncertainty that limit client spend and ability to collect cash in a timely significant disruption to our
climate change payment on consulting manner. This could affect our business. The audit portion of our
presents to the services. credit and liquidity position. business is also more resilient
market and global to changes in buying behavior
economy. given the regulatory nature of our
services.
19Risk management
US obligations under network standards US climate risk management
PwC network member firms agree to abide by certain Our ERM program has been developed in line with
standards - our network standards - which cover a PwC’s global network standard and integrates climate-
number of areas including Enterprise Risk Management related risks into our broader risk management
(ERM). The network ERM standard requires each strategy. The goal of the ERM framework is to prioritize
member firm to establish an ERM programme and risk and develop specific action plans to mitigate and
integrate this within its business operations. The ERM manage a broad range of enterprise-level risks.
programme must also have roles and responsibilities
Responsibilities for ERM efforts are shared across
for identification, prioritization and mitigation of
all business units to make sure that risk assessment
enterprise-level risks. The ERM programme identifies
processes are embedded within business operations.
the most significant risks that could impact the member
The USLT, One Firm Risk Organization (OFRO), Chief
firm, using the Key Network Risks (KNRs) as an input
Risk Officer (CRO), Territory Senior Partner, and the
(which include climate). For every risk identified, each
R&Q Committee work together to identify, monitor, and
member firm is required to assess the probability of the
respond to enterprise risks. The results are reviewed
risk occurring, its potential impact and whether the risk
by the R&Q committee and Territory Senior Partner on
is operational or, forward looking or emerging and then
an annual basis. The framework is updated annually to
develop an appropriate response.
identify and prioritize relevant risks that could impact
Materiality is determined by individual member firms the firm’s ability to achieve its strategic initiatives
for the purpose of their risk assessment. KNRs are and changes as new risks emerge. To conduct the
identified as risks which have the potential to either: assessment, the OFRO leadership team performs
undermine the achievement of the network strategy an initial evaluation and review of enterprise risks to
and business objectives, or fundamentally damage the develop a risk universe and preliminary risk rating. This
network and compromise its future. The current Key initial assessment includes consideration of the prior
Network Risks include the following climate-related year’s risks as well as emerging risks.
matters:
The CRO and OFRO leadership then facilitate
• Black and green swan events: Failure to prepare interviews with the USLT to gather their input and
for environmental events with network-wide perspectives on the firm’s top risks. Based on the
implications in terms of immediate/disaster feedback provided during the interview sessions with
response, reputational damage and potential the USLT, OFRO leadership rates the top risks based
macroeconomic impact such as regulatory change, on their inherent and residual probability and impact,
environmental events or macroeconomic disruption and maps them to the firm’s strategic objectives and
created by events such as a pandemic.* to the KNRs. For FY23, climate-related risks were
discussed during the interviews with the USLT and
• Climate: Failure to review and consider the impact
climate-related considerations were recognized as
of climate change on the network and to prepare
a component of the Macroeconomic/Capital Market
for its implications, including (i) the impact of
Shifts risk.
physical risks and related disruption; (ii) the impact
of transitional risks on certain clients, sectors, Any specific climate-related risks are identified by
economies and on our services; and (iii) failure to the risk owner in the business unit for which that risk
meet network commitments related to climate.* relates. As included in this report, our Risk Modeling
Services team has also conducted a risk assessment
to identify and highlight areas of potential risk across
our firm, including transitional and physical risks. The
*Climate-specific aspects of each of these risks are disaggregated in the risk listings contained within this report.
20results of this risk assessment may be found in the through formalized response processes, such as
table of findings included in the Strategy section of this those put in place to confirm our people’s security or
report. The risk assessment prioritizes risks based on technology backup. The top risks are reviewed by the
likelihood, impact and time horizon, and it’s used to US Chair and Senior Partner, Tim Ryan, and shared
inform our business sustainability strategy and efforts with the R&Q Committee.
to mitigate each identified risk. The typical ERM risk is
The inclusion of climate as one of the Network’s key
a relatively shorter time horizon; but, given the nature of
risks effectively embeds the consideration of climate-
climate risk, we consider risks of 10 years or more.
related risks into the ERM processes and facilitates
Risk mitigation efforts corresponding to each top risk a review to identify, assess and manage enterprise
are also identified. OFRO coordinates with the US firm related risks. Details on how our self assessment is
leaders to assign USLT Risk Owners who have the integrated into the broader global ERM framework
overall accountability and authority to manage a risk. can be found in the PwC Global Climate-related
USLT Risk Owners are also responsible for providing disclosures report.
risk mitigation plans describing the processes,
programs, controls and/or monitoring activities that
have been or will be implemented to address the risks.
Solutions for risk range from purchasing insurance
21Metrics and targets
As noted above in the Strategy section, in 2020 PwC 2. Reduce direct (office) emissions
US joined PwC network firms in a commitment to
By embracing hybrid and virtual work, we’re reducing
achieve net zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
GHG emissions at our offices from our pre-pandemic
by 2030. This includes a target to reduce our scope 1
baseline. In response to our new way of working,
and 2 emissions by 50% and our scope 3 emissions
we’ve consolidated some of our offices and now
by 50% compared to an FY19 baseline by 2030 in
use our space more effectively as collaborative hubs
alignment to our validated global science based target.
for our people to connect with their colleagues and
This target is in line with a future climate change
clients. We realize, though, that hybrid and virtual work
scenario of 1.5 degrees above pre industrial levels,
arrangements do not absolve us from the responsibility
which scientific research indicates is needed to prevent
to capture data that supports our energy goal setting
the worst impacts of climate change. PwC Global
and decision making. We’re developing a methodology
targets have been independently validated by the
to estimate our employees’ work from home energy
Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi), affirming our
consumption and will identify ways to mitigate this
approach and timeline to achieve net zero emissions
impact. We’re also making our offices more energy
by 2030. To guide us, we use a six-prong framework
efficient and sustainable. Just over 80% of our office
coupled with measurable, actionable objectives.
space is in LEED-certified (Leadership in Energy and
Environmental Design) buildings.
1. Measure and disclose impact
We’re applying the lessons from more than a decade of As of FY22, just over 80% of our offices are in LEED-
measuring our GHG footprint to transparently disclose certified (Leadership in Energy and Environmental
progress and drive further changes to business Design) buildings and 76% of our office spaces are
as usual. As such, we’re continually working with LEED-certified interiors, and we continue to look
stakeholders inside and outside of our business to for opportunities to increase this. Shifting from data
refine how we collect that data. In FY22, we extended centers to the cloud further helps to reduce direct
our reporting to include new business travel emissions emissions, and we will be working on reducing the
(such as hotels, rental cars, reimbursed mileage, trains impact this shift to the cloud has on our scope 3
and taxis) and our offshore Acceleration Centers. This emissions. Our offices are symbols of our purpose,
required us to implement new processes and controls brand and culture, and while we’re making our offices
to increase accuracy, data quality and auditability. more energy efficient, we’re also striving to make our
For example, we worked with our travel procurement operations more sustainable. In addition to prioritizing
team to access and cleanse data on these additional the use of LEED-certified buildings and interiors, we’re
modes of travel. We built on efforts started in FY21 to addressing our office waste. Ninety-four percent of
centralize our process for collecting electricity data for our office space has recycling facilities and twenty-
our offices. We’ve also integrated the firm’s finance eight percent provides compost bins. We’re also
and travel data to more effectively measure our travel removing deskside bins and steering our people to
emissions associated with individual clients. use consolidated waste hubs to increase recycling and
reduce landfill waste.
In FY23, we’ll be looking at ways to share GHG data
and individual actions that can be taken by our people.
This information will be coupled with technology
enablement, such as a travel tool to help employees
choose less carbon-intensive travel. We believe that
transparency in impact enables environmentally
conscious decision making while still delivering quality
client and firm outcomes.
223. Source renewable energy
We’ve been using 100% renewable electricity in our
US offices since FY13, when we started purchasing
Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) to cover our
electricity consumption. RECs represent electricity
that was produced and delivered to the power grid by
a renewable resource, such as wind or solar power,
allowing us to mitigate the climate impact of our
electricity consumption. Our operations in Mexico
have sourced 100% renewable electricity through
RECs since FY18, and FY22 was the first year that we
extended this coverage to our overseas Acceleration
Centers. RECs enable us to certify that the energy
we use comes from renewable sources, but they
don’t create additional benefits for the environment
• Encouraging a virtual-first mindset towards our
or society. As a result, we’re actively pursuing other
work and digital delivery of engagements, where
options for sourcing renewable energy that can have
possible.
a greater impact, such as virtual power purchase
agreements (VPPA). VPPAs result in additionality,
• Creating a new air travel dashboard to analyze and
meaning that they add new renewable energy facilities
report on firm and client-level emissions.
to the grid and can result in better environmental and
social outcomes for communities. • Launching an air travel decision support tool to help
our people make lower impact travel decisions.
4. Manage business travel impact
• Integrating emissions into our travel booking tools.
We know that travel will always be an important part
of our business, allowing us to deliver on our client
5. Engaging suppliers
engagements and to provide our employees with
In parallel with efforts to spend more with diverse
opportunities for development. And while the effects
suppliers, we remain focused on helping our supplier
of the pandemic limited our ability to be in-person and
network operate in a sustainable way. Just as we’re
temporarily reduced our business travel to near zero, it
engaging stakeholders throughout our supply chain
also showed us the benefits of a virtual or hybrid work
to help them meet the needs of working with a large
environment and what activities could be conducted
organization like PwC, we’re also working with them
without face-to-face engagement.
to reduce their emissions. This work is critical, as our
But as pandemic restrictions loosened, our travel large supplier network spans the globe and has wide-
rebounded significantly. By June 2022 we had reaching impacts that far exceed the impact of our own
exceeded 50% of monthly pre-pandemic levels of operations.
travel. To meet our net zero goal by 2030, as well as
We’re now implementing a process to engage our
assist others in meeting their own net zero goals, we’ll
largest suppliers to set science-based GHG targets.
need to cut our travel emissions in half versus our FY19
Our goal is to have at least 50% of the PwC global
baseline. We’re actively working to accomplish this
network’s suppliers (by share of emissions) set science-
goal by:
based GHG targets by 2025. At the end of FY22, 9%
• Working with the aviation and travel industries of our suppliers in the US (by share of emissions), were
to support the transition to sustainable travel. To identified as having validated, science-based targets.
this end, we’ve committed funds to Sustainable An additional 11% were identified as having committed
Aviation Fuels (SAF), with four SAF purchase to validated, science-based targets within two years.
agreements with major US airlines. We’re also
supporting essential thought leadership on
integrating SAF in GHG accounting standards.
236. Offsetting emissions In the meantime, we work closely with a third-party
provider to purchase carbon credits annually from
When we’re not able to further reduce our carbon
projects that have been vetted to meet our stringent
emissions (exclusive of employee homes, client
quality criteria and are in line with the latest
locations, and other locations where we may generate
standards. As demand for credits increases, we’re
revenue), carbon credits and removals are an important
also considering forward purchasing and have
way of mitigating our impact. Since 2015, we’ve been
joined the Lowering Emissions by Accelerating
purchasing carbon credits, offsetting our emissions by
Forest finance (LEAF) coalition, which will provide
funding projects that reduce and remove GHGs from
some of our (non-removal) carbon credit needs for
the atmosphere. While carbon offsetting is a credible
FY24-FY28.
and important step, we believe we must first remove
GHG emissions to have an impact. We plan to shift
our carbon credit purchases to 100% carbon removal
projects by FY30 through natural climate solutions such
as forestry projects and technology-based solutions
that remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere.
We’ve already started this transition.
This graphic illustrates how we plan to reach our target
by reducing our emissions and transitioning from
carbon offsetting to removal projects.
Offsetting to achieve net zero: Carbon offsets and removal projects to achieve net zero
Managed
rebound
Pandemic reduction in FY23 Annual reduction to goals
FY19 2030
Goal of 50% GHG
GHG emissions reduction
reduction to
achieve
science
based target
Net Zero
Offsetting
to achieve
net zero
Carbon emissions Neutralization Compensation
(carbon removal projects) (carbon avoidance credits)
Note: This graphic is for illustration purposes only
and is not intended to show exact amounts of
carbon offsets and removals.
24Calculations
PwC annually calculates and reports key performance
indicators, such as GHG emissions, energy
consumption, renewable energy, and carbon offsets.
These metrics are reported up to PwC Global
and included in the PwC Global Annual Review.
Environmental metrics are also reported annually in our
US Purpose and Inclusion Report.
Our GHG footprint
FY19 (baseline) FY20 FY21 FY22
Scope 1 - Fuels 5,083 4,999 4,677 4,729
Scope 2 - Electricity/heat 42,106 37,976 32,232 30,212
Scope 3 - Business travel 388,745 268,117 8,718 87,463
GHG emissions (gross) 435,934 311,092 45,627 122,404
RECs (41,342) (31,787) (26,010) (29,420)
Offsets (310,067) (221,136) (10,939) (92,984)
GHG emissions (net) 84,525 58,169 8,678 0
– Scope 2 emissions for purchased electricity are considered 0 as we purchase renewable energy certificates to match our estimated electricity consumption.
– For a more comprehensive picture of our business travel, we expanded our scope 3 reporting in FY22 to all business-related travel, including air travel by class, hotel stays, vehicle
rentals, expensed fuel, taxi and train travel (prior years have been restated to include these).
– Z ero FY22 net emissions represent carbon neutrality. It does not represent the achievement of our net zero commitment, which won’t be achieved until 2030 and will require us to
complete the steps described in our net zero focus areas.
Our GHG footprint calculation is currently based appendix. For additional details on how we calculate
on operational control within the US, Mexico and emissions and for our process, please refer to our PwC
Acceleration Centers in Argentina, China and India. US carbon methodology.
Emissions are accounted for in accordance with
For PwC, scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions represent
the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World
emissions related to delivering work in PwC offices and
Business Council for Sustainable Development
workspaces caused by consumption of energy and
(WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate
other related resources. Our scope 1 GHG emissions
Accounting and Reporting Standard, Scope 2
are very limited, and are primarily related to the use of
Guidance, Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting
diesel fuel for backup generators and the consumption
and Reporting Standard, and Scope 3 Technical
of natural gas and fuel oil in our workspaces. Our
Guidance for Calculating Scope 3 Emissions. Other
scope 2 emissions are the result of the use of
standards met include the US Environmental Protection
purchased electricity and heat in our workspaces.
Agency (EPA) standards and the US Energy Information
We lease most of our real estate and are working to
Administration’s (EIA’s) Commercial Buildings Energy
determine the effective mix of submetering solutions
Consumption Survey (CBECS). These standards
and lease provisions we can employ to generate data
include assumptions about the composition of GHGs
more useful to our efforts. Shifting from data centers to
in various kinds of emissions. While the vast majority
the cloud further helps to reduce our direct emissions.
of our GHG emissions are CO2, our emissions include
The firm’s scope 3 reporting includes business travel
other GHGs, for example, CH4 and N2O from car
emissions including air travel, hotels, taxis, trains, rental
exhaust fumes. We report in carbon dioxide equivalent
cars and reimbursed mileage.
(CO2e), which accounts for these other GHGs. Our
GHG intensity ratio calculation includes scopes 1, 2
and 3. Definitions for each scope may be found in the
25Looking ahead
Our purpose, to build trust in society and solve • Collaborate with stakeholders: We will only see
important problems, drives us to understand risks and real impact when we use our collective resources to
opportunities that impact our business, people and address climate change, working with companies,
stakeholders. Each year, we push ourselves to measure regulators and communities. We’re committed to
more data and publicly disclose more, not because we actively engaging with third parties to see that all
have to, but because we know we operate in uncertain ESG reporting and efforts contribute to meaningful
and complex times. climate action.
The effects of climate change are increasingly being For additional information on PwC’s ESG initiatives and
seen throughout our value chain, and taking actionable climate strategy, please see the following resources:
steps is critical to how we build trust among our
Global disclosures and resources
stakeholders and secure the future of our firm and our
planet. This report, the first disclosure of its kind for
• PwC Global Annual Review
PwC US, is one more step we are taking for the future
of our business. • PwC Network Climate-related Disclosures Report
But it doesn’t end there, going forward will we US disclosures and resources
continue to:
• PwC US Purpose and Inclusion Report
• Produce transparent disclosures: We will
• PwC US Purpose and Inclusion website
continue our legacy of transparent disclosures
and help our clients to do the same. We view this
• PwC US Audit Quality Report
TCFD report as the next step in our firm’s evolution
in strategy and stakeholder engagement around • PwC US Transparency Report
climate change. It is the basis for ongoing analysis
that will inform our business, people, risk and ESG • PwC US ESG research website
strategies, supporting our firm’s resilience and long
term sustainability.
• Achieve net zero: We are using a six-
prong framework coupled with measurable,
actionable objectives to achieve our 2030 net
zero commitment. This work will be difficult,
requiring thoughtful change management and
communication throughout our organization and
our value chain.
• Drive clients’ climate strategies: As trusted
advisors, our community of solvers has an
unprecedented opportunity to support our clients
in their climate journeys. A core aspect of our
work will be helping clients navigate the net zero
transition in ways that are equitable both within the
US and globally. We do not take this responsibility
lightly due to our DEI commitments as outlined in
our Purpose and Inclusion Report.
26Appendix
Detailed TCFD categorization of risk and opportunity analysis
Note: This table recategorizes risks into the TCFD risk taxonomy, while the preceding table reflects the PwC risk taxonomy.
Type of TCFD category TCFD risk/ Time Low High Business Business response
impact opportunity horizon Warming Warming impact
Scenario Scenario
Impact Impact
Transition Policy and legal Increased pricing of Short Low Low There is currently no PwC has committed to
GHG emissions material carbon pricing offsetting its residual
Evolving US policy has system in the US. Our emissions every year
the potential to either The implementation of Acceleration Center in and to transitioning to
constrain or promote additional carbon taxes China would be subject 100% carbon removal
climate mitigation and in countries or regions to national emissions credits by 2030. The
adaptation strategies. in which we operate. trading protocols. The rapidly increasing prices
Potential risks could adoption of a carbon of offsets may have a
stem from climate tax has the potential to significant impact on
litigation. increase expenses for PwC’s environmental
PwC. budget but can be
considered immaterial to
the overall business.
Enhanced emissions- Short Low Low Transition risks related PwC continuously
reporting obligations to enhanced emissions works on and evaluates
reporting obligations our value proposition
Frequently enhanced refers to the frequently as a vendor to help
emissions reporting enhanced emissions clients on their scope 3
requirements can be reporting requirements efforts. We aim for our
difficult to adhere to that can be difficult employees to have the
or can require costly to adhere to or would same knowledge around
changes to processes. require costly changes climate risks as they
to processes. PwC is have with other business
not an SEC registrant risks. We realize that we
and is not subject to need to be prepared to
enforced emissions help our clients as our
reporting requirements. footprint is part of their
However, if PwC decides scope 3 emissions.
to report on these topics,
there is an overhead
and complexity involved
including the need for
PwC to maintain a staff
of environmental leaders
and specialists.
Mandates on and Short Low Low PwC does not expect to We lease office space,
regulation of existing face significant exposure which helps avoid
products and for climate matters many risks related to
services related to operation of the maintenance and
facilities. operation of the facilities.
Significant penalties Furthermore, many
imposed for climate of the properties that
matters related to are leased prioritize
the maintenance and sustainable practices
operation of facilities. and green building
certifications such as
LEED.
Public perception Short High Medium As the markets and PwC has identified a
regulators increasingly potential opportunity
Increased awareness emphasize the impact to simplify and improve
and public perception of climate change, we the measurement and
around the effects of will likely have to adapt management of climate
climate change may our service offerings, change for our clients
lead to regulatory including audit services, through our services. We
changes that could to remain at the forefront intend to work closely
require changes in of innovative new with clients on adapting
service offerings and technology, and maintain to new regulations and
new technology, or and attract a staff of mitigating climate risks
require additional sustainability specialists. while managing our own
staffing. exposure to climate-
related risks.
27Type of TCFD category TCFD risk/ Time Low High Business Business response
impact opportunity horizon Warming Warming impact
Scenario Scenario
Impact Impact
Transition Technology Substitution of Medium Medium Medium Transition risk emerges Clients are increasingly
existing products and from substitution of looking to understand
Technological services with lower existing products climate-related risks
improvements that emissions options and services to lower and opportunities and
support the transition and unsuccessful emissions options. To the looking for assistance
to a low-carbon investment in new extent that sustainability on how to address
economy can have a technologies services, and the climate change. We
significant impact on technology associated have seen an increase
an organization. To Failed technological with them, have not yet in demand related to
the extent that new advancement related been fully developed services around ESG
technology displaces to lower emission by PwC or a competitor and helping clients
old systems and operational processes has developed and is build their strategy
disrupts parts of the or products. offering a more effective with consideration to
existing economic product, this could climate change. We are
system, winners and result in a scenario well positioned to help
losers will emerge where initial attempts clients to not only report
from this “creative to meet more stringent on climate issues but
disruption” process. customer requirements to make their business
are unsuccessful. This more resilient.
could result in loss of
revenue, unexpected The experience that we
costs in order to deliver have within the firm, our
on contract obligations client focus, technology
or reputational risk of and ability to mobilize
failing to meet customer around what is going on
expectations. in the regulatory space
makes us well positioned
for this challenge.
Costs to transition Long Low Low Per our Net Zero While climate initiatives
to lower emissions Roadmap, we have may increase costs,
technology identified a variety of the need to address
emissions reduction climate change and its
Costs to implement initiatives to help impacts also offers us
lower emissions or the firm achieve net opportunities to make
renewable energy zero emissions by our business, employees
technologies could 2030. However, these and clients more
put a strain on firm initiatives have a resilient to the impacts
margins. financial cost associated of climate change. We
with purchasing RECs have the experience
and carbon offsets, along with technology
supporting sustainable and data management
aviation fuels and leasing capabilities to identify
LEED-certified offices. what our clients should
be thinking of. The
increased emphasis
on climate disclosure
and increased efforts
from companies to
mitigate greenhouse gas
emissions can lead to
an increase in assurance
and consulting services
which could result in
revenue growth from
services.
28Type of TCFD category TCFD risk/ Time Low High Business Business response
impact opportunity horizon Warming Warming impact
Scenario Scenario
Impact Impact
Transition Market Changing customer Short Medium Low As businesses look We’ve already begun
behavior and to grow their own to invest in new
The ways in which shifts in consumer understanding of climate services, including the
markets could be preferences risk and comply with any development of in-house
affected by climate relevant regulation, there physical risk climate
change are varied and Customer purchasing may be an increased models, in anticipation
complex. One of the policies shift to favor need for sophisticated of evolving client needs.
major ways is through competitors with more services. Clients are We’ve also enhanced
shifts in supply and thorough sustainability already requesting the measurement and
demand for certain services and/or less increased transparency reporting of our GHG
commodities, products exposure to climate on the impact of emissions to be able
and services as risk. delivering our services, to track the carbon
climate-related risks such as individual project footprint of each client
and opportunities are carbon footprinting. relationship.
increasingly taken into
Uncertainty in market Medium Low Low Uncertainty in the market Climate is changing the
account.
signals can create a more approach to consulting
difficult landscape for engagements because
Frequently changing PwC to make informed it presents a business
environmental strategic decisions and risk to our clients. We’re
regulation and market increase the risk of a actively monitoring laws
attitudes as a result suboptimal business and regulations. We have
of climate change decision being made. external advisors that
can make it difficult Noncompliance with notify us if there are any
for PwC to confirm evolving environmental changes in a specific
compliance across law (that likely will jurisdiction. The Public
jurisdictions and continue to change more Policy team monitors
impact strategic frequently) can result in publications and has
decisions. Uncertainty third-party claims and frequent conversations
in the market can also adverse financial impact with outside lobbying
create a more difficult to business. consultants to stay
landscape for PwC compliant with frequently
to make strategic changing environmental
decisions. laws. Our business is
well suited to meet the
market opportunity
whether that is regulatory
driven or driven by
commitments to help our
clients to stay compliant.
For audit engagements,
climate risks are
currently a part of our
audit risk assessment,
which includes specific
procedures for our teams
to assess climate risks.
Increased cost of raw Medium Low Low As a professional and We are focused on
materials commercial services reducing our emissions
firm, our reliance on and associated energy
Changes in input natural resources and consumption further,
prices, including capital is relatively small mitigating the effects
energy, as a result compared to other of rising prices.
of climate change industries. Fluctuations Additionally, we already
can impact upstream in energy prices manage fluctuations
and downstream upstream would increase in goods and services
operations. the firm’s expenses aside from climate, so
and energy shortages any impacts from climate
pose a risk to the directly would fall under
resilience of operations. this. In the supply chain,
Landlords may invest we see a risk associated
in energy efficiency with immaturity of
initiatives to offset these suppliers and we realize
changes, which could the need to lead the way
result in higher rents or for our suppliers that are
operational charges. on their own transition
journey. We will continue
to align our supply chain
to make sure that the
vendors and suppliers
that we work with align
with our goals and
values.
29Type of TCFD category TCFD risk/ Time Low High Business Business response
impact opportunity horizon Warming Warming impact
Scenario Scenario
Impact Impact
Transition Reputation Stigmatization of Long Medium Medium Allegations against PwC As we grow our
sector or any of our peers in climate-related service
Climate change has regards to providing offerings and public
been identified as a Occurrence of a climate-related auditing awareness of climate
potential source of major event or services could bring change increases,
reputational risk tied public relations reputational risk to we will continue to
to changing customer disaster related to the firm. Additionally, innovate high-quality
or community the professional and stranded assets caused service offerings and
perceptions of commercial services by environmental factors, maintain and attract a
an organization’s industry could shift such as climate change, staff of environmental
contribution to or public opinion on the regulator impacts and specialists.
detraction from the industry as a whole. public opinion/response
transition to a low- to it, may lead to direct
carbon economy. and indirect impacts on
stakeholder strategies
and liabilities.
Increased Medium Medium Low As the market evolves We are focused on
stakeholder concern and the demand for maintaining trust with
or negative feedback climate focused services our clients as part of
increases, we may be The New Equation in
Shift in stakeholder exposed to the risk of leading by example.
attitudes toward losing market share to Due to the importance
competitors with a peers if we fail to align PwC places on trust
lower perceived impact with market expectations and transparency, we
on climate change. around climate, or are have committed to net
perceived not to be living zero emissions and to
up to market claims transparently disclose
around trust and focus our own climate risks.
on climate. We will continue to meet
our clients where they
We could also be are and guide them
exposed to risks related along their climate
to staffing, recruiting, journey.
turnover and retention
which could affect
diversity and access to
the right specialization
if PwC is not perceived
to be aligned with
employee and
prospective employee
values. We may also
face scrutiny from
environmental activists
that could target the firm
for similar reasons.
30Type of TCFD category TCFD risk/ Time Low High Business Business response
impact opportunity horizon Warming Warming impact
Scenario Scenario
Impact Impact
Physical Acute Increased frequency Medium Medium Medium Climate change could Climate change is not
and severity of have an impact on our projected to significantly
Acute physical risks extreme weather business including office increase our offices’
refer to those that are events locations, data centers, exposure to physical
event-driven, including employee homes, risks. As most offices
increased severity Floods, wind storms, employee health and are leased, the direct
of extreme weather cyclones, wildfires, demand for services. The damage to an asset may
events, such as storm surges, hail, likelihood of increased not significantly impact
cyclones, hurricanes drought, etc. severity of extreme the firm. However,
and floods. weather events and the widespread damage
associated impact to our to infrastructure could
business are moderate in impact employees’
either emissions scenario ability to access the
given the geographic office. Increasing remote
diversity of our offices work options for our
which protects firm employees can be good
productivity as a whole. for resilience if such an
event occurs.
With the introduction
of strategies such as
The New Equation and
My+, more employees
have the option to
work remotely, making
employees’ homes
increasingly important
to the firm’s resilience.
In the event of a natural
disaster, offices can
be a safe haven for
employees, providing
access to a temperature-
controlled environment,
running water or
electricity.
Insurance coverage Medium Low Low As the frequency and We lease office space
severity of extreme and properties that
Policies may be weather events prioritize sustainable
significantly reduced increases, property and practices and green
or become a larger casualty insurers that building certifications
financial burden provide key protection such as LEED. The
as a result of the to commercial entities quality and resilience
increased risk around in the event of physical of our leased buildings
catastrophic climate damage to sites, assets mitigates our exposure
events. and personnel will to reduced insurance
likely look to remain coverage.
profitable by modifying
their insurance offerings.
Carriers may restrict
underwriting guidelines
thereby limiting the
coverage available
to us, either through
reduced limits, higher
deductibles or refusal
to provide coverage
in certain geographic
regions deemed most
susceptible.
31Type of TCFD category TCFD risk/ Time Low High Business Business response
impact opportunity horizon Warming Warming impact
Scenario Scenario
Impact Impact
Physical Chronic Changes in variability Long Low Low Chronic changes in We recognize that a
of extreme weather weather patterns could responsible business
Chronic physical risks patterns increase our costs to environment and
refer to longer-term operate office locations, climate efforts are
shifts in climate Increased variability of including increased critical investments for
patterns (e.g., weather in countries electricity or other a resilient business. We
sustained higher or regions in which we costs due to rising are considering how
temperatures) that may operate. chronic heat, decreasing physical climate risks
cause sea level rise or precipitation, and rising will impact our people
chronic heat waves. sea levels. strategy. Physical
risks such as extreme
weather events could
impact our business, the
Decreased levels of Long Low Low We do not consume locations of our offices,
precipitation significant amounts of our employees home
water. Having said that, locations and our clients.
Resulting in droughts changes in precipitation Business continuity
or water shortages in resulting in droughts or strategies are essential
countries or regions in water shortages could to prepare and mitigate
which we operate. impact productivity. the impact of physical
Our business is also risks. We are working on
not strongly tied with aligning and diversifying
any especially water AC locations to establish
intensive sectors. backups and mitigate
risk.
Rising mean Long Low Low Although it’s unlikely
temperatures that we will be directly
For the AC locations in
impacted, rising
India, extreme weather
Impacts to our temperatures may lead
events pose a continuity
operations and supply to an increase in energy
risk. We’re continuously
chain. costs and the power grid
working on enhancing
may be strained under
the resiliency plans that
higher temperatures
are already in place. At
leading to blackouts
PwC’s AC locations,
and impacting our
site-level initiatives have
employee’s ability to
been implemented to
work. However, rising
promote work options
mean temperatures
that could lower the
reaching a level that
environmental impact
would result in significant
and ultimately improve
loss of work is unlikely.
the work environment
Sea level rise Long Low Low Although it’s unlikely for our people. Initiatives
that we will be directly range from office design
Impacts to our affected, damage to to car-pooling and
operations and supply local infrastructure and in-office reductions of
chain. employee well-being paper, electricity and
could impact our ability water. Reimbursement
to provide services to policies have been
our clients. implemented alongside
high speed internet and
equipment to enable
remote working options.
32Detailed physical risk scenario analysis results
We have conducted a physical climate risk exposure analysis on office, data center and employee home locations
in the US, Mexico and overseas US owned or jointly owned Acceleration Centers. In this map, white dots represent
employee home zip codes while offices are indicated by the red location pins.
Our asset and employee
footprint
We use 40 years of historical
weather data to determine
present day risk scores for
each office and home zip code
location, examining seven
extreme weather perils (hail,
wind gusts, tropical cyclones,
drought, flood, tornado and
wildfire) and assign a score
ranging from 0 (very low) to 100
(extreme). As shown, our people
and offices are geographically
dispersed, which exposes our
firm to a variety of physical risk
hazards.
Office hazard exposure
Climate change is not projected to significantly increase our offices’ exposure to physical risks. At present, 38
offices face a risk level of high or greater from at least one physical climate hazard. Under a High Emissions
scenario this drops to 34 by 2050 due to reduced exposure to high wind gust risk.
Hail hazard (2020) Wildfire hazard (2020)
Hail poses the highest risk to our offices in the US. Seven Wildfire risk is low or very low at all offices. This represents direct
offices face extreme levels of hail risk at present and eight face physical risk to the building. Wildfires can cause damage and
very high levels of risk. The Oklahoma City office is exposed loss of property and disrupt transportation, communications and
to both extreme tornado and hail risk. The impacts of hail power services resulting in business disruption and increased
include property damage and may lead to power outages and costs.
transportation disruptions resulting in business disruption and
increased costs.
33Primary hazards to employee home zip codes
Housing, proximity to an office and salary all factor into our employees’ capacity to continue work following natural
disasters, ultimately impacting PwC’s ability to provide services to our clients. With the introduction of strategies
such as The New Equation and My+, more employees have the option to work remotely. In the event of a natural
disaster, offices can be a safe haven for employees, providing access to a temperature-controlled environment or
electricity. Without a nearby office, employee home zip code locations become increasingly important to the firm’s
resilience. Employee home zip code location data was anonymized in our analysis.
West Coast Northeast Florida
Drought and wildfire pose a higher risk Wind gust risk and hail are the most Tropical cyclones (hurricanes) and
on the West Coast, where climate change prevalent risks in the Northeast. Hail and wildfires are the two most common risks
is already causing warmer and drier wind gusts pose a threat to our people in Florida. Climate change is projected to
conditions, leading to increased risk of and offices and may lead to power increase the severity of tropical cyclones
wildfire. Drought can be damaging to the outages, transportation disruptions, over the Atlantic Ocean. Tropical cyclones
foundations of buildings and cause long- damage to buildings and personal injuries pose a risk to our people and may cause
term public health problems, including resulting in business disruption from an heavy flooding, power outages, damage
shortages of drinking water, poor quality inability to work. to property and communication systems.
drinking water, and impacts on air Cyclones may force employees to
quality, sanitation and hygiene, food and evacuate, resulting in business disruption
diseases. Wildfires can cause damage from an inability to work.
and loss of property as well as disruptions
to transportation, communications, power
services and water supply. Wildfires also
affect air quality and the health of our
people.
Peril definitions
Flood Flood is an overflow of water on a normally dry area
Wind Gust and Windstorm Extreme wind events associated with events like thunderstorms, etc.
Hail Hail is solid precipitation associated with cumulonimbus clouds
Tropical Cyclone A tropical cyclone is a large rotating storm with winds more than 118 kph
Drought Drought is a moisture deficiency that results in adverse impacts
Wildfire Wildfire is an unplanned fire that burns in a natural area
Tornado A tornado is a violently rotating column of air from storm to ground
Storm Surge Storm surge is abnormal rise of water generated by tropical cyclones
34Primary hazards to Acceleration Centers in India
The same analysis was conducted for office and employee home administrative district locations in Mexico and at
overseas Acceleration Centers in Asia and South America. In India, PwC US has Acceleration Centers in Mumbai
(office lease expired 2021), Hyderabad, Kolkata and Bangalore.
Highest risk to PwC AC employees by area
This map shows the highest risk to PwC employees in India
by Postal Index Number (PIN Code). Risk scores were also
calculated for each office in India, which are indicated on the
map by black and white location pins.
India is one of the countries most vulnerable to the impacts of
climate change. Its population is at risk from both sea-level rise
and water scarcity.
For PwC employees, the highest risk is from drought in Central
and Western India, while along the East Coast tropical cyclones
are the highest risk.
Internationally, employee home administrative district location
data is not consistently collected, limiting the scope of the
analysis for some AC locations.
Hail Wind gusts Tropical cyclone Drought Flood Wildfire
Detailed transition risk scenario analysis Focus and Trust clients. Our client base and services
results are well-diversified and total revenue is expected to
grow under both climate change scenarios1 based
The potential impact of the transition to a low carbon on the current client portfolio, though we note that
economy on the firm was modeled using PwC’s our portfolio composition may change in the future.
Climate Excellence tool. Climate Excellence projects Projected revenue grows more under a 2.7°C scenario
estimated change to our client’s annual earnings, which because there is less pressure on industries, such as
was assumed to be proportional to the impact to PwC Utilities, to reduce emissions. While projected revenue
revenue. growth is important, other long-term carbon emissions
reduction goals as well as firm resilience to increased
This analysis uses a static balance sheet and does
physical climate risks under a high emissions scenario
not consider any PwC revenue growth projections.
are important. Additionally, the analysis does not
The impact is based on client earnings under varying
consider how the impact of climate change on our
climate scenarios. The top 80% of clients by FY21
environment and society may ultimately impact our
revenue were included in this analysis as well as the
revenue. Conversely, there is additional opportunity
FY21 Focus 500 and Trust 400 clients.
to help our clients manage new regulations and adapt
their businesses in a low emissions scenario, which
Using this static balance sheet approach, the impact of
may provide additional revenue not captured above.
climate change on Trust and Focus clients and PwC’s
current client portfolio is comparable. Under both
scenarios the projected revenue growth is similar for
1. The climate change scenarios refer to a 1.8°C (low emissions scenario in line with the Paris Climate Agreement) and 2.7°C (high emissions scenario
which reflects current global stated emissions reductions policies).
35Our transition risk sector-level impacts high emissions scenario by 2050. We apply a 50%
dampening assumption to projected changes in audit
PwC’s Climate Excellence tool models global drivers revenue to reflect more resiliency to market conditions.
of the low-carbon transition, which includes the cost We anticipate that revenue generated from audit
of raw materials, availability and prices of energy, and services will not be impacted by climate change.
carbon emissions pricing, with the impacts of these
drivers broken down by sector. The following impacts
consider the changes in revenue based on a low versus
Power and Utilities Pharmaceutical and Life Sciences Energy Travel and
Transportation
Consumer Products Aerospace and Other Asset Other
Defense and
Wealth
Software & Digital Platforms
Chemicals
Industrial
Infrastructure Manufacturing
Other Retail
Banking and Capital
Communications
Markets Mining
Forest,
Paper and
Packaging
www.pwc.com
© 2023 PwC. All rights reserved. PwC refers to the US member firm, and may sometimes refer to the PwC network. Each member firm is
a separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details. This content is for general information purposes only and
should not be used as a substitute for consultation with professional advisors. 1357875-2022
36