ADDENDUM TO THE 2023 TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (TCFD) REPORT Published April 2024
For Cautionary Information and Forward-Looking Statements, see page 8
Introduction
In 2021, Bank of America committed to achieving Net Zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions before 2050 in our As highlighted in our 2023 TCFD Report (p. 32), working with our clients to assist them in achieving their own
financing activities, operations and supply chain (Net Zero goal), and in 2022, we released our Approach to Zero™, carbon-reduction objectives is core to our ability to achieve our 2030 financing activity targets. This requires
a framework for how we will achieve our Net Zero goal. As part of this Net Zero goal, we are focused on reducing client engagement, analytics to measure performance, and a deeper understanding of our clients’ transition plans.
emissions from key carbon intensive sectors in our financing activity and publish progress on our targets annually. Thousands of relationship bankers in each of our lines of businesses are working with our tens of thousands of
In 2022, we announced science-aligned weighted average physical unit intensity targets for the auto manufacturing, clients to provide advice and deliver our full suite of financial solutions, providing capital as they transition toward a
energy and power generation sectors, and in 2023, for the aviation and cement sectors. We are releasing this low-carbon economy. Recognizing the large amount of capital that our clients will require to transition to a secure
addendum to the 2023 TCFD report as we now have established targets for the iron and steel sector and maritime low-carbon economy, in 2021 Bank of America announced a goal to mobilize and deploy $1.5 trillion in sustainable
shipping sector. We plan to publish our annual comprehensive climate-related reporting per usual in the fall of this finance by 2030 that is aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, with $1 trillion of this
year, which will include more details on our Net Zero strategy. capital focused on the environmental transition. Since the announcement of our goal in 2021, we have mobilized and
deployed $560 billion in sustainable finance as of the year-end 2023, with more than $316 billion focused on the
These targets cover our commercial credit lending portfolio. Our intention is to incorporate additional financing
transition to a low-carbon, sustainable economy.
activities, including tax equity and capital markets, starting in 2025. Improving data quality across our portfolio is
another important, ongoing area of focus. This commitment is designed to advance the environmental transition spanning sectors and geographies, including
solutions in energy efficiency, renewable energy, sustainable transportation (electric vehicles and charging
We currently do not plan to set targets for other sectors for a variety of reasons. These include: immaterial exposure,
infrastructure, sustainable aviation fuel, biofuels, etc.), resource efficiency, sustainable water (water treatment and
lack of climate scenarios and methodologies for these sectors, and data quality challenges. Best practices for
water desalination), and agriculture as well as improved forestry and pollution control measures. We continue to
financial institution target setting continue to evolve and be refined. We may consider setting targets for additional
expand our sustainable financing activities and capabilities, including increased asset-based lending, tax equity and
carbon intensive sectors over time. With the addition of our new iron and steel sector and maritime shipping sector
tax incentive-related financing and investments, and capital raising activities across technologies and activities that
targets, a majority of our financing activity emissions within our commercial credit lending portfolio are covered by
support clean energy and power, transportation and other industry sectors as well as nature and biodiversity.
our targets.
ADDENDUM TO THE 2023 TCFD REPORT 1A note on our updated Environmental and Social Risk Policy Framework (ESRPF) and thermal coal mining
As stated in our Environmental and Social Risk Policy Framework (ESRPF), which has been updated since the publication of our 2023 TCFD Report, there
are certain business activities which carry significantly heightened risks across the seven key risk types outlined in the Bank of America Risk Framework
(i.e., Compliance, Credit, Liquidity, Market, Operational, Reputational, Strategic) and have increased investor, client, employee and regulator scrutiny. As such,
any client relationship or transaction related to these certain areas listed in the ESRPF must go through enhanced due diligence and be escalated to the
senior-most risk review body of the applicable line of business for decisioning. This process is client-specific, deal-specific and subject to governance review
that considers a range of risks that are evaluated through our Risk Framework, as are all transaction and client decisions, in the ordinary course of business.
These areas include:
• Direct financing of the construction of new coal-fired power plants or expansion of existing coal-fired power plants — unless those facilities employ
technology that is focused on complete or near elimination of atmospheric carbon emissions; and
• Direct financing of new thermal coal mines or the expansion of existing mines.
Companies focused on coal extraction, particularly coal used in power generation (“thermal coal”), face significant challenges. The focus of power utility
clients, investors, regulators and other stakeholders on the challenges with coal for power generation — combined with the recent proliferation of natural
gas, solar, wind and other lower carbon energy sources — is intensifying and accelerating these challenges. Any client or transaction involving companies
deriving ≥ 25% of their revenue from thermal coal mining must be escalated to the Senior-level Risk Committee for decisioning. As part of the enhanced
due diligence process, we give consideration to whether a company has a public commitment to align its business (across Scopes 1, 2 and 3 emissions) with
the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement and the transaction would be facilitating the diversification of the company’s business away from thermal coal.
Through the application of the Bank of America Risk Framework and given the range of risks associated with this area, we have significantly reduced
financing (including facilitating capital markets transactions and advising on mergers and acquisitions) of companies deriving ≥ 25% of their revenue from
thermal coal mining and are on a trajectory to phase out such financing by 2025. We have reduced exposure to the thermal coal mining sector by 94% since
2019 to $9.1 million as of 12/31/2023, or less than 0.0008% of our total committed commercial credit exposure across all industries.
ADDENDUM TO THE 2023 TCFD REPORT 2Iron and Steel
Absolute Economic
Sector Target Emissions Intensity 2021 Commercial Credit Exposure
Sub-sector 2030 Target 2030 Target 2021 Committed loan Percent of total Utilized loan Percent of total
boundaries Emission Scopes Reference Baseline physical (as % of baseline (calculated (thousands 2021 exposure committed exposure utilized
Sector included included scenario Baseline year unit intensity reduction) emissions) tCO e) (tCO e/millions) (millions $) exposure1 (millions $) exposure2
2 2
Crude steel Scopes 1 and 2 1.75 tCOe/t 1.28 tCOe/t
Iron and Steel IEA NZE2050 2021 2 (27)% 2 3,682 2,128 $3,911 0.35% $1,731 0.26%
production COe crude steel crude steel
2
The metric being used for our target is metric tons of GHG emissions per metric ton of crude steel (tCO e/t crude
Target
2
steel). To arrive at our target metric, we take the client’s physical unit intensity and weight it based on their portion
Activity focus Crude steel production
of committed loan financing in our iron and steel producing portfolio. For clients that do not have reported production
data from which emissions intensity could be calculated, we include their emissions in our absolute metric but not
Financing inclusion Committed commercial credit loans and leases
in our physical intensity metric, and these clients are not included in our target. The absolute calculation follows the
Data sources MSCI, S&P Global Trucost and client reporting
Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) methodology and represents additional components of the iron
and steel sector: iron ore mining, forging, casting and processing, as well as crude steel production. As a result, our
absolute metric includes more clients than our physical intensity metric.
The iron and steel target includes primary and secondary steel producing clients and iron ore mining clients that
have steel production within their value chain. Our target is derived from the International Energy Agency Net Zero Absolute financed emissions
Emissions by 2050 (IEA NZE2050) decarbonization pathway for iron and steel production. The target includes clients’
Private companies Listed companies
Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions, covering the emissions associated with the production of crude steel — the most
emissions intensive stage of the production process. Crude steel is the midstream activity of steel production and
∑ Outstanding amount ∑ Outstanding amount
represents the first solid steel product upon solidification of liquid steel prior to casting. Since the IEA NZE2050 c X Client emissions c X Client emissions
Total equity + debt c Enterprise value c
trajectory for iron and steel emissions intensity includes only Scope 1 emissions, Scope 2 emissions were estimated C c C
including cash (EVIC)
using data from the World Energy Outlook and NZE2050 scenario for the sector’s energy demand, the expected c
proportion of energy demand from electricity, and the applicable emissions factors. With c = borrower With c = borrower
An increasing number of clients are reporting GHG emissions and production information, largely due to industry-
led initiatives. However, several are not. This resulted in us estimating emissions for a portion of the portfolio where Economic intensity
information is not available. For our purposes, we retrieved emissions and production information from either MSCI
or S&P Global Trucost, or directly from client reports. When reported information is not available, we use S&P Global Absolute financed emissions (sector)
Economic intensity =
Trucost revenue-based factors to estimate GHG emissions. Total utilized financing (sector)
Weighted average physical unit intensity (target metric)
1 The percent of our committed commercial credit loan exposure per sector in relation to our total committed commercial credit loan exposure, as reported ∑
(
Client emissions Client financing
)
in the Bank of America Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021 (Bank of America 2021 Form 10-K). Weighted average physical unit intensity = X
Client production Total sector financing
2 The percent of our utilized commercial credit loan exposure per sector in relation to our total utilized commercial credit exposure, as reported in the
Bank of America 2021 Form 10-K.
ADDENDUM TO THE 2023 TCFD REPORT 3Maritime Shipping
is compared to a vessel-specific decarbonization trajectory derived using the IMO Strategy, the Third IMO GHG
Portfolio 2021 Commercial Credit
Sector Alignment Score Exposure Study 2014,4 and the Fourth IMO GHG Study 2020 to arrive at a vessel-level climate alignment score. The portfolio
Percent of weighted average alignment score (in a percentage) is calculated based on the committed exposure for each vessel.
Sub-sector Committed total A zero percent score means a company is aligned with the decarbonization pathway. A positive score indicates a
boundaries Emission loan exposure committed
portfolio is above the decarbonization trajectory and a negative score indicates a favorable outcome: accelerated
Sector included Scopes included Reference scenario 2021 (millions $) exposure3
decarbonization relative to the pathway.
Vessel-level Poseidon Principles
Maritime
commercial Scope 1 CO via 2018 Initial IMO -3.31 $3,548 0.31% We have engaged Maritime Strategies International (MSI) to provide vessel-level emissions, distance traveled and
Shipping 2
shipping GHG Strategy vessel characteristics. MSI’s database of vessel characteristics, such as type and capacity, is compiled and verified
using a wide range of industry sources. MSI has provided leading independent market insight and business advisory
services to the international shipping sector for over 35 years.
Target
The IMO and Poseidon Principles have committed to changes to both the decarbonization trajectories and
Activity focus Commercial shipping
methodologies. The IMO adopted an updated decarbonization strategy in 2023 which includes more aggressive
Financing inclusion Vessel-specific committed commercial credit loans and leases decarbonization goals and increased emissions coverage. The Poseidon Principles have committed to adopting this
approach and are expected to release an updated methodology with vessel-level decarbonization trajectories aligned
Metric Annual Efficiency Ratio (AER)
to the 2023 IMO decarbonization goals later this year.
Data sources Maritime Strategies International Bank of America will continue to monitor updates to maritime shipping decarbonization guidance and may consider
adjustments to our approach in the future.
The maritime shipping sector target includes vessel-level commercial shipping activities that fall under the purview
of the International Maritime Organization (IMO) (e.g., vessels with a gross tonnage of 5,000 or more). Each vessel Portfolio alignment score (target metric)
secures a loan or finance lease on our balance sheet. The methodology covers our clients’ Scope 1 GHG emissions,
Vessel climate alignment score
or “tank-to-wake” emissions, from the operation of the vessels. Our maritime shipping target methodology is
derived from the Poseidon Principles, which were initially published in 2019 and are the prevailing methodology
Vessel AER – Vessel decarbonization trajectory AER
used by financial institutions to set decarbonization targets for their asset-specific shipping portfolios. The Poseidon
Vessel climate alignment score =
Principles leverage the 2018 Initial IMO GHG Strategy (IMO Strategy) due to its provision of asset-level trajectories. Vessel decarbonization trajectory AER
The Rocky Mountain Institute’s Center for Climate Aligned Finance led the development of the Poseidon Principles
utilizing the expertise of sector stakeholders and financial institutions, which included reviews by sector participants,
stakeholders and nongovernmental organizations prior to publishing.
Portfolio climate alignment score
The Poseidon Principles methodology tracks performance using the vessel’s annual efficiency ratio (AER), a capacity-
based physical unit intensity metric that is common within the sector. AER is calculated as grams of carbon dioxide ∑ ( Vessel financing )
divided by deadweight tonnage times nautical miles traveled during the year (gCO /dwt*nm). Each vessel’s AER Portfolio climate alignment score = Vessel climate alignment score X
2 Total sector vessel financing
3 The percent of our committed commercial credit loan exposure per sector in relation to our total committed commercial credit loan exposure, as reported in
the Bank of America 2021 Form 10-K.
4 Since 2000, IMO has commissioned studies that provide a global reference in estimating GHG emissions from international shipping. These studies are
prepared by research organizations across the world under the oversight of a panel of Member Governments and the IMO Secretariat.
ADDENDUM TO THE 2023 TCFD REPORT 4Data Quality
Per the PCAF standard, our absolute financing activities emissions calculations and corresponding data quality scores
are based on utilized commercial credit exposure. PCAF provides a scoring mechanism for emissions calculations to
evaluate data quality. Under this system, the use of verified client-reported emissions achieves a data quality score
of 1, unverified emissions achieve a score of 2,5 and estimated emissions range from a score of 3 to 5 based on the
information used for the estimations. The corresponding table shows the data quality score of our financing activity
emissions for each sector across relevant Scopes and reporting years.
2021 Score
Sector Scope(s) Based on Utilized Exposure
Iron and Steel 1 and 2 2.7
Maritime Shipping 1 2
5 Per PCAF, a data quality score of 2 is also given if emissions are calculated using the client’s energy consumption details and emission factors.
ADDENDUM TO THE 2023 TCFD REPORT 5APPENDIX 1 | VERIFICATION STATEMENT
2024
Page 2
VERIFICATION OPINION DECLARATION
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Criteria against which verification was conducted:
To: The Stakeholders of Bank of America • WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain Accounting and Reporting Standard
(Scope 3)
Apex Companies, LLC (Apex) was engaged to conduct an independent verification of the greenhouse gas (GHG) • Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) Global GHG Accounting & Reporting Standard for the
emissions reported by Bank of America for the period stated below. This verification opinion declaration applies to the Financial Industry
related information included within the scope of work described below. • Bank of America’s Internal Protocol for calculating Financed Emissions
The determination of the GHG emissions is the sole responsibility of Bank of America. Bank of America is responsible Reference Standard:
for the preparation and fair presentation of the GHG emissions statement in accordance with the criteria. Apex’s sole
responsibility was to provide independent verification on the accuracy of the GHG emissions reported, and on the • ISO 14064-3 Second edition 2019-04: Greenhouse gases --Part 3: Specification with guidance for the
underlying systems and processes used to collect, analyze and review the information. Apex is responsible for verification and validation of greenhouse gas statements
expressing an opinion on the GHG emissions statement based on the verification. Level of Assurance and Qualifications:
Boundaries of the reporting company GHG emissions covered by the verification: • Limited
• Operational control • This verification used a materiality threshold of ±5% for aggregate errors in sampled data for each of the
• Financed emissions (Maritime Shipping and Iron & Steel) above indicators
Type of GHGs: CO2, N2O (Iron & Steel only), CH4 (Iron & Steel only) GHG Verification Methodology:
GHG Emissions Statement: Evidence-gathering procedures included but were not limited to:
• Scope 3 — Investments: • Interviews with relevant personnel of Bank of America and their consultant;
Units Emissions Data • Review of documentary evidence produced by Bank of America;
Quality
• Review of Bank of America data and information systems and methodology for collection, aggregation,
Absolute Total Financed Emissions (Iron & Thousand Metric tons
Steel includes Scope 1 and Scope 2) CO2e 3,682 2.7 analysis and review of information used to determine GHG emissions; and
Portfolio Alignment Score (Maritime Percent -3.31 2.0 • Audit of a sample of data used by Bank of America to determine GHG emissions.
Shipping Asset Specific includes Scope 1)
Verification Opinion:
Category Units Intensity Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the Scope 3 GHG emissions statement
Economic Intensity (Iron & Steel includes Thousand Metric tons shown above:
Scope 1 and Scope 2) CO2e e/ xM poil sli uo rn
e
USD 2,128
• is not a fair representation of the GHG emissions data and information; and
• has not been prepared in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value
Chain Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 3).
Category Units Intensity
P Sch oy psi ec a 1l aIn nt de n Ss ci oty
p
e(I r 2o
)
n & Steel includes CO2eM /Met er tic
ri
cto tn os
n s CS
1.75 I at
n
is
a
lo yu sir
s
o op fi n qi uo an
n
t th ita at
t
iB vea n dk
a
to af fA om
r
de eri tc ea
rm
ha ins
a
e tios nta b ol fi s thh ee sd
e
a Gpp Hr Gop eri mat ie
ss
s ioys nt se m fos
r
tf ho er t sh te
a
teco dl l pe ec rti io odn ,
a
a ng dg bre og ua nt dio an
r
iea sn .d
Statement of independence, impartiality and competence
Data and information supporting the Scope 3 GHG emissions statement were in some cases estimated rather
Apex is an independent professional services company that specializes in Health, Safety, Social and Environmental
than historical in nature.
management services including assurance with over 30 years history in providing these services.
No member of the verification team has a business relationship with Bank of America, its Directors or Managers beyond
Period covered by GHG emissions verification: that required of this assignment. We conducted this verification independently and to our knowledge there has been no
• January 1, 2021, to December 31, 2021 conflict of interest.
WATER RESOURCES • ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES • HEALTH & SAFETY • COMPLIANCE & ASSURANCE
WATER RESOURCES • ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES • HEALTH & SAFETY • COMPLIANCE & ASSURANCE
Apex Companies, LLC • (800) 733-2739 • www.apexcos.com
Apex Companies, LLC • (800) 733-2739 • www.apexcos.com
ADDENDUM TO THE 2023 TCFD REPORT 62024 (continued)
Page 3
Apex has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards among staff in its day-
to-day business activities.
The verification team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over environmental, social, ethical and health
and safety information, systems and processes, has over 20 years of combined experience in this field and an excellent
understanding of Apex’s standard methodology for the verification of greenhouse gas emissions data.
Attestation:
John A. Rohde, Lead Verifier Trevor Donaghu, Technical Reviewer
Principal Consultant ESG Director
Apex Companies, LLC Apex Companies, LLC
March 31, 2024
This verification opinion declaration, including the opinion expressed herein, is provided to Bank of America and is solely for the
benefit of Bank of America in accordance with the terms of our agreement. We consent to the release of this declaration to the
public or other organizations for reporting and/or disclosure purposes, without accepting or assuming any responsibility or liability on
our part to any other party who may have access to this declaration.
WATER RESOURCES • ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES • HEALTH & SAFETY • COMPLIANCE & ASSURANCE
Apex Companies, LLC • (800) 733-2739 • www.apexcos.com
ADDENDUM TO THE 2023 TCFD REPORT 7APPENDIX 2 | CAUTIONARY INFORMATION AND FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Cautionary Information and Forward-Looking Statements
This addendum contains statements regarding environmental, social and governance information and opinions, Corporation’s control and are inherently uncertain. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking
including metrics, aspirations, targets, goals, commitments, cumulative values and sustainability objectives (all statement. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, any of these
of the foregoing and any other contents of this addendum being, collectively, the Sustainability Information), forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors, including global socio-demographic and economic trends,
in connection with Bank of America Corporation’s application of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial energy prices, technological innovations and advances, climate-related conditions and weather events, legislative
Disclosures recommendations. The Sustainability Information included in this addendum may consider disclosure and regulatory changes, public policies, engagement with clients, suppliers, investors, government officials and other
recommendations and broader definitions of materiality used by certain voluntary external frameworks and reporting stakeholders, the quality and availability of third-party data, including data measured, tracked and provided by data
guidelines that differ from mandatory regulatory reporting, including the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission providers, our clients and other stakeholders, our ability to gather and verify data, our ability to successfully implement
(SEC). Accordingly, any such Sustainability Information may be presented from a different perspective and in more sustainability-related initiatives under expected time frames, third-party compliance with our expectations, policies
detail than in Bank of America Corporation’s regulatory reporting, and materiality and any use of the term “material” in and procedures and other unforeseen events or conditions. Discussion of additional factors, including uncertainties
the context of the Sustainability Information may be distinct from such term as defined for SEC reporting purposes. and risks, can be found in Bank of America Corporation’s 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent SEC
Any inclusion of Sustainability Information in this addendum is not an indication that the subject or information filings. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and Bank of America Corporation
is material to Bank of America Corporation for SEC reporting purposes. Additionally, Sustainability Information undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect the impact of circumstances
may be based on current or historic aspirations, goals, targets, commitments, estimates, assumptions, standards, or events that arise after the date the forward-looking statement was made. Additionally, this addendum may contain
metrics, methodologies and internal control frameworks, and currently available data, which continue to evolve and statements based on hypothetical or severely adverse scenarios and assumptions, which may not occur or differ
develop, and any statements made in connection with Bank of America Corporation’s aspirations, goals, targets or significantly from actual events. These statements should not necessarily be viewed as being representative of
commitments are not guarantees or promises that they will be met. The Sustainability Information is as of the date current or actual risk or forecasts of expected risk.
referenced, subject to change without notice and may be regarded as indicative and for illustrative purposes only.
Any website references and/or links throughout this addendum are provided for convenience only, and the content
The Sustainability Information may vary based on applicable laws, rules and regulations and in different geographic
on any referenced websites is not incorporated by reference into this addendum. Any such website references and/or
areas. Such Sustainability Information may also include the use of financial and nonfinancial metrics and/or other
links do not imply an affiliation, sponsorship, endorsement, etc.
information that vary in source, quality, timeliness and completeness and are subject to significant measurement
This addendum was published on April 15, 2024, and is provided by Bank of America Corporation on behalf of itself
uncertainties, which may include the methodology, collection and verification of data, various estimates and
and of its direct and indirect legal and operating subsidiaries and their branch operations worldwide, as applicable.
assumptions, and/or underlying data that is obtained from third parties, often which we cannot independently verify.
Additionally, certain statements contained in this addendum may constitute “forward-looking” statements within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including sustainability-related statements regarding
our aspirations, targets, goals and commitments, such as our commitment to achieve Net Zero GHG emissions before
2050 in our financing activities, operations and supply chain, interim 2030 Net Zero GHG emissions targets, including
financed emissions targets and sustainable finance commitments, which may evolve over time. We use words such
as “anticipates,” “targets,” “expects,” “hopes,” “estimates,” “intends,” “plans,” “goals,” “believes,” “continue” and other
similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “may,” “might,” “should,” “would” and “could” to identify
forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not based on historical facts, but reflect management’s
current expectations, plans or forecasts, are not guarantees of future results or performance, involve certain known
and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict and often beyond Bank of America
ADDENDUM TO THE 2023 TCFD REPORT 8APPENDIX 3 | DISCLAIMERS
Disclaimers
The information contained in this addendum is for informational purposes only, is not intended to be comprehensive
and does not constitute investment, financial, economic, accounting, legal or tax advice or recommendations.
Additionally, such information is not a product of any research affiliate or division of Bank of America Corporation, and
has not been reviewed, endorsed or otherwise approved by any such research unit. Any views or opinions expressed
herein may differ from the views and opinions of other departments or divisions of Bank of America Corporation and
its affiliates. Neither Bank of America Corporation nor any of its affiliates, directors, officers, employees or agents
shall incur any responsibility or liability whatsoever to any person or entity with respect to the contents of, use of or
reliance upon any matters referred to in this addendum.
This addendum should not be used as a basis for trading in the securities or loans of any of the companies named
herein or for any other investment decision. The information contained in this addendum does not constitute and is
not intended as a recommendation and/or an offer or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, purchase or
sell any financial instrument, equity product or other investment, or as an official confirmation of any transaction or a
recommendation for any investment product or strategy.
Additionally, such information does not constitute a commitment, undertaking, offer or solicitation by any
Bank of America Corporation entity to underwrite, subscribe for, or place any securities or to extend or arrange
credit or to provide any other products or services to any person or entity. Historical data shown represents past
performance and does not guarantee comparable future results.
Any third-party information contained in this addendum or otherwise used to derive information in this addendum is
believed to be reasonable and reliable, but no representation or warranty is made by as to the quality, completeness,
accuracy, fitness for a particular purpose or non-infringement of such information. In no event shall Bank of America
Corporation be liable (whether in contract, tort, equity or otherwise) for any use by any party of, for any decision made
or action taken by any party in reliance upon, or for any inaccuracies or errors in, or omissions from, such information
contained herein. Any sources of third-party information referred to herein retain all rights with respect to such data
and use of such data herein shall not be deemed to grant a license to any third party. Any use of or reference to third-
party brand names, trademarks, service marks, business descriptions or case studies is for informational purposes only
and does not imply a referral, recommendation or endorsement by Bank of America Corporation or its affiliates or
that such third party has authorized Bank of America Corporation or its affiliates to promote the third party’s products
or services.
ADDENDUM TO THE 2023 TCFD REPORT 9